risk factors 16 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled special note regarding forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. as of november 30, 2007, we utilized and distributed certain data provided to us by over 150 data sources, including large volumes of data from certain exchanges around the world. if the products of our suppliers have errors, are delayed, have design defects, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain exchanges. many of these data suppliers compete with one another and, to some extent, with us. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers 16 table of contents threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use and offer our clients and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and exchanges typically benefit from broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts would hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. some of our third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products exchange information with clients through a variety of media, including the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex network of internal process and software controls to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation of our internal controls, misappropriation of client data could occur. such internal control inadequacies could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indices from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities and products based on our indices. our index clients rely on us to keep information about changes to the future composition of an index confidential and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have implemented information barrier procedures to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose or an individual deliberately misuses information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 table of contents legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and pending third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider certain aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop, patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra and fea as trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other product trademarks and certain service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use similar names. patents we currently hold nine u.s. and foreign utility patents and one design patent. we currently have 13 u.s. and foreign utility patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure agreements with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure agreement and reveals a trade secret, we could lose the trade secret protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our proprietary information. additionally, the enforceability of our license and non-disclosure agreements and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a nontransferable license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. the enforceability of on-line licenses and terms of use has not been conclusively determined by the courts. there can be no 18 table of contents assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. pending third-party litigation there is currently litigation pending in the u.s. and abroad regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. we are not a party to these suits, but they may have a material impact on our business. in a relevant case last year, a federal appeals court ruled against dow jones &amp; company, inc. (dow jones) and the mcgraw-hill companies (mcgraw-hill) in their attempt to prevent international securities exchange, inc. from offering options on etfs based on dow jones and mcgraw-hill indices. if the courts further determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on an index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. we have made and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, required to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. we may also be called upon to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. we monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 19 table of contents we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use, resulting in our loss of rights or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. these asset-based fees make up a significant and increasing portion of our revenues. they were 18.6%, 15.0%, and 14.0% of revenues for the years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 52%, 45% and 38% of the revenues from our ten largest clients in the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. economic uncertainty and volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. in particular, because our international equity indices are constructed from the perspective of an international investor, our asset-based fees may decrease if investments are directed away from foreign markets and become focused on domestic markets. additionally, if the performance of a market and the msci index that tracks that market decline, the assets of an investment product based on that index may decline as well. each of these factors could result in the fluctuation in or decline in our asset-based fees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 20 table of contents our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenues are concentrated in some of our largest clients. our clients may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to try to decrease our fees accordingly. for example, competition is intense and increasing among our clients that provide exchange traded funds. the fees they charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on our clients continuing to invest in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the majority of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. to the extent our clients investment emphasis significantly changes from equity to fixed income securities or multi-asset class or derivative strategies, the demand for our equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments. the market for our products is characterized by shifting client demands, evolving market practices and, for some of our products, rapid technological change. changed client demands, new market practices or new technologies can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. as a result, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products and product enhancements that address the future needs of our target markets and respond to technological and market changes. we may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing our new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and our new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. 21 table of contents a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 31%, 31% and 28% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our largest client organization by revenue, barclays plc and affiliates, accounted for 12.6%, 11.2% and 7.7% of our total revenues, respectively. approximately 91.5% of the revenue from barclays came from fees based on the assets in barclays exchange traded funds based on msci indices. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe this practice supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop independently certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry to create a single-purpose product may be low in many cases. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. consolidation within our target markets may affect our business. consolidation in the investment management industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. this may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and we expect this trend to continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth during our operating history. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. for example, our attempt to expand our index products to include fixed income indices was not as successful as we anticipated, so we decided to terminate our efforts to develop proprietary fixed income indices. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting and retaining additional qualified personnel, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1 business. there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a principal element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses; 23 table of contents increased debt; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues and expenses are subject to currency exchange fluctuation risk. we have two separate exposures to currency exchange fluctuation risk revenues from index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds, and non-u.s. dollar invoiced revenues and expenses. revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 18.6%, 15.0% and 14.0% of operating revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, substantially all of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, approximately 15%, 17% and 21%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. approximately half of our foreign currency revenues were in euros and a quarter in pounds sterling and japanese yen, respectively, over those periods. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. although our expenses are generally in u.s. dollars, some of our expenses are incurred in non-u.s. dollar denominated currencies. approximately $55.6 million, or 23%, of our expenses for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2007 were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in swiss francs, pounds sterling, hong kong dollars, euros and japanese yen. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. and replace services provided by morgan stanley internationally for which we currently pay morgan stanley in u.s. dollars. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase. we do not hedge our foreign currency-linked revenue stream. to the extent we or morgan stanley attempt to hedge this risk in the future, there is no guarantee that any hedging will be fully effective. changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any 24 table of contents applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act we believe that our products do not provide investment advice for purposes of the investment advisers act of 1940. future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible we may become registered as an investment adviser under the investment advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. as a registered investment adviser, we would be subject to the requirements and regulations of the investment advisers act, which relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. data privacy legislation changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in customs, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. soft dollars approximately 13%, 12% and 13% of our revenues were paid through soft dollar arrangements for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. u.s. clients accounted for 68%, 76% and 80% of total soft dollar revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. on july 18, 2006, the sec issued interpretive release no. 34-54165, which became effective on july 24, 2006. the release provides guidance on asset managers use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services within the scope of section 28(e) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the interpretive release outlines a framework for determining what types of research services fall within the safe harbor provisions of that section. market participants had a six-month grace period that ended on january 24, 2007 to bring their soft dollar practices into compliance with the new guidance. we rely on our clients to determine whether our products fall within the description of eligible research services, whether our products provide lawful and appropriate assistance to the money manager in undertaking investment decisions, and whether the commissions are reasonable in relation to the value of the products provided for their particular business in the u.s. and abroad. if clients decide they cannot or will not pay for our products through soft dollar arrangements, or if additional rules are issued or certain interpretations are followed that narrow the definition of research or brokerage services that can be paid for on behalf of a money manager through use of soft dollars in the u.s. or abroad or the safe harbor provisions of section 28(e) of the exchange act are eliminated, our revenues could decrease. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability 25 table of contents claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products. however, these provisions have certain exceptions and could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of november 30, 2007, we had $425.0 million of indebtedness ($402.7 million in long term debt and $22.3 million in current maturities) and cash and cash equivalents and cash deposited with related parties of $171.4 million. on november 14, 2007, we entered into the $500.0 million credit facility. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. as of november 30, 2007, we had $425.0 million outstanding under the credit facility. the credit facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis (except as described in item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us ); and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed (a) 3.75:1.0 through november 30, 2009, (b) 3.50:1.0 from december 1, 2009 through november 30, 2010 and (c) 3.25:1.0 thereafter; and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be (a) 3.00:1.0 through november 30, 2009, (b) 3.50:1.0 from december 1, 2009 through november 30, 2010 and (c) 4.00:1.0 thereafter. in addition, our credit facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place 26 table of contents us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, national disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients may be materially and adversely affected. catastrophic events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other catastrophic events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity measures we have taken to reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events will be sufficient. such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 table of contents although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity measures will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these measures will be accurate. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. risks related to our relationship with morgan stanley morgan stanley owns a controlling interest in our company and the interests of morgan stanley may conflict with ours and with those of our other shareholders. as of november 30, 2007, morgan stanley owned approximately 96.6% of the outstanding shares of our class b common stock, which represents approximately 93.02% of the combined voting power of all classes of voting stock. our class a common stock has one vote per share, and our class b common stock generally has five votes per share other than with respect to a limited number of matters specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (such as approval of transactions by which a third-party might acquire control of us). as of november 30, 2007, holders of shares of class b common stock collectively control approximately 96.3% of the combined voting power of all classes of voting stock, except when amending or altering any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or by-laws so as to adversely affect the rights of the other class. for example, the holders of shares of class b common stock, substantially all of which is held by morgan stanley, are able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors, who determine our strategic plans, approve major financing decisions and appoint top management. in addition, as a holder of substantially all of our class b common stock, morgan stanley may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to holders of our class a common stock or adversely affect us or other investors. because morgan stanley interests as our controlling shareholder may differ from other investors interests, actions taken by morgan stanley with respect to us may not be favorable to other investors. we have also entered into a services agreement and a number of other agreements with morgan stanley setting forth various matters governing our relationship with morgan stanley while it remains a significant shareholder in us. for a description of these agreements, see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. these agreements govern the provision of corporate services to us and are likely to affect our ability to make certain acquisitions or to merge or consolidate or to sell all or substantially all our assets. the rights of morgan stanley under these agreements may allow morgan stanley to delay or prevent an acquisition of us or prevent a redemption or repurchase of our common stock that our other shareholders, including you, may consider favorable. we may not be able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable, except in accordance with their terms. 28 table of contents conflicts of interest may arise between morgan stanley and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between morgan stanley and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. areas in which conflicts of interest between morgan stanley and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership . the ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of morgan stanley or service as a director or officer of both morgan stanley and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. for example, these decisions could relate to (i) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by morgan stanley, (ii) disagreement over the desirability of a potential business or acquisition opportunity or business plans, (iii) employee retention or recruiting or (iv) our dividend policy. intercompany transactions . from time to time morgan stanley or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. for example, we may provide morgan stanley with licenses to certain of our products. although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between morgan stanley and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board of directors or a committee of disinterested directors, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm length negotiations. intercompany agreements . we entered into certain agreements with morgan stanley pursuant to which morgan stanley provides us with certain human resources, information technology, accounting, legal and compliance, tax, office space leasing, corporate services, treasury and other services for so long as morgan stanley owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock. the services morgan stanley will continue to provide upon owning 50% or less of our outstanding common stock are subject to renegotiation in good faith, and will be provided for a period not to exceed 12 months. it is expected, for so long as morgan stanley owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, that payments for these services will be based on an internal cost allocation methodology based on fully loaded cost ( i.e. , allocated direct costs of providing the services, plus all related overhead and out-of-pocket costs and expenses) and an allocation to us of a portion of compensation-related expenses for morgan stanley senior executives, in each case, consistent with past practices. in addition, we will enter into a number of intercompany agreements covering matters such as tax sharing. we are negotiating the terms of these agreements with morgan stanley in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. the terms will not be the result of, and may not be as favorable as terms obtained in, arm length negotiations. in addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretations of any extension or renegotiation of these agreements. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. business opportunities . several of our directors, morgan stanley and affiliates of morgan stanley may have or make investments in other companies that may compete with us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we have renounced any interest in related business opportunities and that our directors who are employees of morgan stanley or its affiliates (other than us) have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. as a result of these charter provisions, our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected. our cost of funding will increase and our liquidity will decrease. we have lower credit ratings and are expected to have more constrained liquidity than our current principal shareholder, morgan stanley. currently, morgan stanley maintains a contingency funding plan to manage a potential prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and to provide the ability to conduct business in an orderly manner. as part of morgan stanley, our liquidity needs are included in this plan. as a stand-alone company, we will need to manage our liquidity needs independent of morgan stanley. we may face 29 table of contents challenges in maintaining equivalent liquidity reserves and securing access to contingent funding. we may also face additional challenges in the future, including more limited capital resources to invest in or expand our business. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. our historical financial results are derived from our results as a subsidiary of morgan stanley and include allocated costs for functions historically provided by morgan stanley and therefore may not be representative of our results as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical financial information included in this annual report on form 10-k does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented and may not be indicative of the results we will achieve in the future as a stand-alone public company. the historical costs and expenses reflected in our consolidated financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by morgan stanley, including portions of human resources, information technology, accounting, legal and compliance, tax, office space leasing, corporate services and treasury. these allocations were based on what we and morgan stanley considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. the historical information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or costs and expenses will be in the future, or that our costs as a stand-alone company will be similar. for additional information, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, item 6. selected consolidated financial data and the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. we completed our initial public offering in november 2007 and our ability to operate our business effectively may suffer if we do not, quickly and cost effectively, establish our own financial, administrative and other support functions to operate as a stand-alone company or if we are unable to replace the corporate services morgan stanley provides us in a timely manner or on comparable terms. historically, we have relied on certain financial, administrative and other resources of morgan stanley to operate our business both domestically and internationally. we completed our initial public offering in november 2007 and as a result of our initial public offering, we will need to enhance certain financial, legal and compliance, administrative, information technology and other support systems and processes or contract with third parties to replace morgan stanley systems. morgan stanley has performed many important corporate functions for our operations, including certain human resources, information technology, accounting, legal and compliance, office space leasing, corporate services and treasury functions. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, cost allocations related to these services were $26.4 million, $23.1 million and $20.0 million, respectively. we have entered into a services agreement with morgan stanley pursuant to which morgan stanley will continue to provide some of these services to us for so long as morgan stanley owns more than 50% of our outstanding common stock. the services morgan stanley will continue to provide upon owning 50% or less of our outstanding common stock are subject to renegotiation in good faith, and will be provided for a period not to exceed 12 months. it is expected, for so long as morgan stanley owns more than 50% of our common stock, that compensation for services under the services agreement with morgan stanley will be determined, consistent with past practices, using an internal cost allocation methodology based on fully loaded cost ( i.e. , allocated direct costs of providing the services, plus all related overhead and out-of-pocket costs and expenses), as well as the portion of compensation related expenses for morgan stanley senior executives as allocated to us. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us for a description of these arrangements. upon the sale or other disposition of any portion of our business, assets or properties, morgan stanley obligation to provide any service in respect of such disposed business, assets or properties will terminate. similarly, if our business increases significantly or we acquire any business, assets or properties, morgan stanley will not have to 30 table of contents provide any services in respect of such increase or acquired business, assets or properties. these services may not be sufficient to meet our needs and, after these agreements with morgan stanley terminate, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at acceptable prices and terms. any failure or significant downturn in our own financial or administrative policies and systems or in morgan stanley financial or administrative policies and systems during the term of the services agreement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although morgan stanley will be contractually obligated to provide us with services during the term of the services agreement, we may not be able to obtain services of similar scope and quality after the expiration or termination of that agreement. in addition, our costs of procuring those services from third parties may increase. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. furthermore, we may face certain difficulties in operating our business if we are no longer able to rely on morgan stanley presence and established services. in connection with our initial public offering, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters that may be on terms less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with another party, and we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. in connection with our initial public offering, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters while still a majority-owned subsidiary of morgan stanley. accordingly, the terms of these agreements may not reflect those that would have been reached with another party on an arm s-length basis. if these agreements were entered into with another party, we may have obtained more favorable terms. pursuant to certain of these agreements, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. we may experience increased costs resulting from a decrease in the purchasing power and other operational efficiencies we have had due to our association with morgan stanley. we have been able to take advantage of morgan stanley purchasing power in the u.s. and internationally in procuring goods, technology and services, including insurance, employee benefit support and audit services. as a stand-alone company, we may be unable to obtain goods, technology and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to becoming a stand-alone company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, if we are unable to continue to file combined returns with morgan stanley, our tax liability may also increase due to increased income taxes in the jurisdictions where combined filings were previously made with morgan stanley. further, morgan stanley has been influential in our ability to attract and retain research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other personnel. as a stand-alone company, it may be more difficult and costly for us to attract and retain such personnel. the development, maintenance, support and use of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see risks related to our business we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above. 31 table of contents we may experience a loss in the marketing and reputational value we currently have due to our association with the morgan stanley name. we believe we have received marketing and reputational benefits from our association with the morgan stanley brand name. as a stand-alone company that may no longer be the case. consequently, our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients and our reputation may be adversely affected. the obligations associated with being a public company will require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the exchange act and the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ). the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. all of the procedures and practices required as a majority-owned subsidiary of morgan stanley were previously established, but we will have additional procedures and practices to establish as a stand-alone public company. as a result, we will incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur. furthermore, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a stand-alone public company. however, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. in addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act requires annual management assessments of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, starting with the second annual report that we file with the sec, and will likely require in the same report, a report by our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. in connection with the implementation of the necessary procedures and practices related to internal control over financial reporting, we may identify deficiencies that we may not be able to remediate in time to meet the deadline imposed by the sarbanes-oxley act for compliance with the requirements of section 404. we will be unable to issue securities in the public markets through the use of a shelf registration statement if we are not in compliance with section 404. in addition, failure to achieve and maintain an effective internal control environment could have a material adverse effect on our business and stock price. we are a controlled company within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. morgan stanley continues to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the new york stock exchange corporate governance standards. under the new york stock exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a controlled company and need not comply with certain requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating/corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. we intend to utilize these exemptions. as a result, we will not have a majority of independent directors nor will our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. accordingly, shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the new york stock exchange corporate governance requirements. 32 table of contents risks related to ownership of our class a common stock because holders of the shares of class b common stock will control the majority of the voting power of all classes of voting stock, other shareholders will not be able to determine the outcome of shareholder votes. holders of our class a common stock have one vote per share, and holders of our class b common stock generally have five votes per share, other than with respect to a limited number of matters specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (such as approval of transactions by which a third-party might acquire control of us). holders of shares of class b common stock collectively control 96.77% of the combined voting power of all classes of voting stock other than with respect to those matters. for example, the holders of shares of class b common stock are able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors, who determine our strategic plans (including certain acquisitions), approve major financing decisions and appoint top management. in addition, the holders of the class b common stock may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us, but which might involve risks to holders of our class a common stock or adversely affect us or other investors. substantially all of the class b common stock are beneficially owned by morgan stanley and class b shares are only transferable to morgan stanley, capital group international or one of their subsidiaries or affiliates. any such shares of class b common stock transferred to a person other than morgan stanley, capital group international or one of their subsidiaries or affiliates automatically convert into one share of class a common stock upon such disposition, except for a disposition effected in connection with a distribution of class b common stock in a tax-free spin-off. morgan stanley may in the future decide to distribute all or a portion of its interest in the class b common stock to its shareholders or securityholders through a tax-free spin-off. following any such disposition, shares of class b common stock will no longer be convertible into shares of class a common stock, and will be transferable as class b common stock, retaining their rights to multiple votes per share. if equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our class a common stock, the price of our class a common stock could decline. the trading market for our class a common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. the price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. the market price of our class a common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of etfs; changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; 33 table of contents announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and changes in regulatory and other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our class a common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. this would include sales by morgan stanley and restricted shares of class a common stock and options to purchase shares of class a common stock granted in connection with our initial public offering and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. in connection with our initial public offering, we, our executive officers, certain of our directors and morgan stanley and capital group international agreed with the underwriters not to offer, sell, dispose of or hedge any shares of our class a common stock or securities convertible into or exchangeable for shares of our common stock (including shares of our class b common stock), subject to specified limited exceptions and extensions, during the period ending 180 days (subject to extension) after the date of november 14, 2007, except with the prior written consent of morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated. of the outstanding shares, all of the shares of class a common stock and all of the shares of class b common stock will be freely tradable after the expiration date of the lock-up agreements, excluding any shares acquired by persons who may be deemed to be our affiliates. all of the outstanding shares of our class b common stock will be eligible for conversion and resale after the expiration of the lock-up period. shares of our common stock held by our affiliates will continue to be subject to the volume and other restrictions of rule 144 under the u.s. securities act of 1933, as amended, or the securities act. morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated may, in its sole discretion and at any time without notice, release all or any portion of the shares of our common stock subject to the lock-up. in addition, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the 2007 msci independent directors equity compensation plan. 34 table of contents provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our class a common stock. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our class a common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. moreover, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware (the dgcl ) until such time as morgan stanley ceases to own more than 50% of our outstanding common stock, after which we will be governed by these provisions. section 203 prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our class a common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that investors could receive a premium for your class a common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our class a common stock. we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirement and other factors. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 61 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we have exposures to currency exchange fluctuation risk revenues from index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds, non-u.s. dollar invoiced revenues and non-u.s. dollar operating expenses. revenues from equity index-linked investment products represented approximately $62.9 million, or 17.0%, of our operating revenues for fiscal year 2007. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, substantially all of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of clients in euros, pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. approximately $56.7 million, or 15.3%, of our revenues for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2007 are denominated in foreign currencies, of which the majority are in euros, pounds sterling and japanese yen. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. although our expenses are generally in u.s. dollars, some of our expenses are incurred in non-u.s. dollar denominated currencies. approximately $55.6 million, or 23.1%, of our expenses for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2007 were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in swiss francs, pounds sterling, hong kong dollars, euros and japanese yen. expenses paid in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. and replace services provided by morgan stanley internationally for which we currently pay morgan stanley in u.s. dollars. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase. generally, we do not use derivative financial instruments as a means of hedging this risk; however, we may do so in the future. foreign currency cash balances held overseas are generally kept at levels necessary to meet current operating and capitalization needs. 61 table of contents interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $33.8 million, $24.4 million and $23.4 million at november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. these amounts were held primarily in checking money market accounts in the countries where we maintain banking relationships. the majority of excess cash is deposited with our parent company. at november 30, 2007, 2006 and 2005, amounts held with our parent company were $137.6 million, $330.2 million and $252.9 million, respectively. on our statements of financial condition, these amounts are shown as cash deposited with related parties. we receive interest at morgan stanley internal prevailing rates on these funds. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. as a result of the dividend discussed above in factors impacting comparability july 2007 dividend and financings as discussed in factors impacting comparability credit facility we expect interest income to be substantially lower and interest expense to be substantially higher in future periods. any borrowings under the credit facility will accrue interest at a variable rate equal to (i) libor plus a fixed margin of 2.50% in the case of the term loan a facility and the revolving facility and 3.00% in the case of the term loan b facility or (ii) the base rate plus a fixed margin of 1.50% in the case of the term loan a facility and the revolving facility and 2.00% in the case of the term loan b facility, in each case subject to interest rate step downs based on the achievement of consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) conditions. we expect to pay down the credit facility with cash generated from our ongoing operations. in addition, we were required by the terms of our credit facility to enter into an interest rate swap within 90 days of november 20, 2007 in order to convert a portion of our variable rate funding to fixed rate funding. on february 13, 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements effective through the end of november 2010 for an aggregate notional principal amount of $251.7 million. by entering into these agreements, we reduced interest rate risk by effectively converting floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. this action reduces our risk of incurring higher interest costs in periods of rising interest rates and improves the overall balance between floating and fixed rate debt. the effective fixed rate on the notional principal amount swapped is approximately 5.65%. these swaps are designated as fair value hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment under sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities.risk factors 17 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled special note regarding forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. as of november 30, 2008, we utilized and distributed certain data provided to us by over 125 data sources, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the products of our suppliers have errors, are delayed, have design defects, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. many of these data suppliers compete with one another and, to some extent, with us. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us. the korea exchange has notified us that if we do not reach a formal agreement regarding our use of the korea exchange real time price data, the korea exchange will consider instructing the vendor of its real time data to cease supplying us with the data, and/or the korea exchange will consider taking legal action. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use and offer our clients and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts would hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. some of our third-party suppliers also are our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. 17 table of contents any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products exchange information with clients through a variety of media, including the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex network of internal process and software controls to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation of our internal controls, misappropriation of client data could occur. such internal control inadequacies could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indices from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities and products based on our indices. our index clients rely on us to keep information about changes to the future composition of an index confidential and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have implemented information barrier procedures to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose or an individual deliberately misuses information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and pending third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider certain aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop, patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra and fea as trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other product 18 table of contents trademarks and certain service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use similar names. patents we currently hold nine u.s. and foreign utility patents and one design patent. we currently have 13 u.s. and foreign utility patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure agreements with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure agreement and reveals a trade secret, we could lose the trade secret protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our proprietary information. additionally, the enforceability of our license and non-disclosure agreements and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a nontransferable license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. the enforceability of on-line licenses and terms of use has not been conclusively determined by the courts. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. pending third-party litigation there is currently litigation pending in the u.s. and abroad regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. we are not a party to these suits, but they may have a material impact on our business. in a relevant case in 2006, a federal appeals court ruled against dow jones &amp; company, inc. (dow jones) and the mcgraw-hill companies (mcgraw-hill) in their attempt to prevent international securities exchange, inc. from offering options on etfs based on dow jones and mcgraw-hill indices. if the courts further determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. 19 table of contents third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on an index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. we have made and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, required to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. we may also be called upon to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. we monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use, resulting in our loss of rights or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating 20 table of contents costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. if our clients are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down or consolidate, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. most of our clients are in the financial services industry. for example, asset managers accounted for 67.6% of our revenues as of november 30, 2008. stock market volatility, lack of available credit and reduction in revenues in 2008 led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. we expect such events in 2008 to impact our financial results, including our run rates and aggregate and core retention rates, in the near term. furthermore, if such trends continue, we may not be able to generate future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our clients do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the majority of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. to the extent our clients investment emphasis significantly changes from equity to fixed income securities or multi-asset class or derivative strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. these asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they were 16.9%, 18.6% and 15.0% of revenues for the years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 48%, 52% and 45% of the revenues from our ten largest clients in the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. economic uncertainty and volatile capital markets, such as those witnessed in 2008, as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, as of november 30, 2008, the value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indices was $119.0 billion, which was 37.9% lower than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2007. net asset depreciation accounted for $99.7 billion of the decline, which was offset by $27.0 billion in net asset inflows. also, uncertain market conditions have resulted in investments being directed away from mutual funds. for example, according to the investment company institute, the outflows for equity mutual funds in the united states, year-to-date, as of november 2008 were $215.7 billion. continuing economic uncertainty and market volatility could result in the fluctuation of or increased declines in our asset-based fees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. consolidation within our target markets may affect our business. consolidation in the financial services industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. for example, stock market volatility and the lack of available credit and reductions in revenues in 2008 led to the closure or merger of a number of our clients, including broker-dealer, asset manager and hedge fund clients. if consolidation continues, it may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenues are concentrated in some of our largest clients. our clients may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to try to decrease our fees accordingly. for example, competition is intense and increasing among our clients that provide exchange traded funds. the fees they charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments. the market for our products is characterized by shifting client demands, evolving market practices and, for some of our products, rapid technological change. changed client demands, new market practices or new technologies can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. as a result, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products and product enhancements that address the future needs of our target markets and respond to technological and market changes. we may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing our new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and our new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 28.6%, 30.8% and 30.5% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, our largest client organization by revenue, barclays plc and affiliates, accounted for 11.0%, 12.6% and 11.2% of our total revenues, respectively. for the fiscal year 2008, approximately 89.7% of the revenue from barclays came from fees based on the assets in barclays exchange traded funds based on msci indices. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe this practice supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop independently certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our 23 table of contents competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry to create a single-purpose product may be low in many cases. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and we expect this trend to continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth during our operating history. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. for example, our attempt to expand our index products to include fixed income indices was not as successful as we anticipated, so we decided to terminate our efforts to develop proprietary fixed income indices. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting and retaining additional qualified personnel, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1 business. 24 table of contents there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a principal element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. substantially all of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating income (expense). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 16.9% and 18.6% of operating revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, substantially all of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. 25 table of contents we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008 and 2007, approximately 14.1% and 15.3%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. approximately half of our foreign currency revenues were in euros and a quarter in pounds sterling and japanese yen, respectively, over those periods. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. although our expenses are generally in u.s. dollars, some of our operating expenses are incurred in non-u.s. dollar denominated currencies. approximately 27.5% and 23.1%, of our operating expenses for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in swiss francs, pounds sterling, hong kong dollars, euros, japanese yen, and hungarian forint. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. and replace services provided by morgan stanley which are paid in u.s. dollars. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $4.3 million for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2008. these losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the strengthening of the us dollar. we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act we believe that our products do not provide investment advice for purposes of the investment advisers act of 1940. future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible we may become registered as an investment adviser under the investment advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. as a registered investment adviser, we would be subject to the requirements and regulations of the investment advisers act, which relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. 26 table of contents data privacy legislation changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in customs, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. soft dollars approximately 12%, 13% and 12% of our revenues were paid through soft dollar arrangements for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. u.s. clients accounted for 62%, 68% and 76% of total soft dollar revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. on july 18, 2006, the sec issued interpretive release no. 34-54165, which became effective on july 24, 2006. the release provides guidance on asset managers use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services within the scope of section 28(e) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the interpretive release outlines a framework for determining what types of research services fall within the safe harbor provisions of that section. market participants had a six-month grace period that ended on january 24, 2007 to bring their soft dollar practices into compliance with the new guidance. we rely on our clients to determine whether our products fall within the description of eligible research services, whether our products provide lawful and appropriate assistance to the money manager in undertaking investment decisions, and whether the commissions are reasonable in relation to the value of the products provided for their particular business in the u.s. and abroad. if clients decide they cannot or will not pay for our products through soft dollar arrangements, or if additional rules are issued or certain interpretations are followed that narrow the definition of research or brokerage services that can be paid for on behalf of a money manager through use of soft dollars in the u.s. or abroad or the safe harbor provisions of section 28(e) of the exchange act are eliminated, our revenues could decrease. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products. however, these provisions have certain exceptions and could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. on november 14, 2007, we entered into the $500.0 million credit facility. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us credit facility and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. as of november 30, 2008, we had $402.8 million of indebtedness under the credit facility ($380.5 million in long term debt and $22.3 million in current maturities) and cash and cash equivalents of $268.1 million. the credit facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares 27 table of contents of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis (except as described in item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us ); and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed (a) 3.75:1.0 through november 30, 2009, (b) 3.50:1.0 from december 1, 2009 through november 30, 2010 and (c) 3.25:1.0 thereafter; and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be (a) 3.00:1.0 through november 30, 2009, (b) 3.50:1.0 from december 1, 2009 through november 30, 2010 and (c) 4.00:1.0 thereafter. in addition, our credit facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human 28 table of contents error, national disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients may be materially and adversely affected. catastrophic events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other catastrophic events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity measures we have taken to reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events will be sufficient. such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity measures will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these measures will be accurate. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. we have recently opened sales offices in shanghai, dubai and mumbai and have made preparations to open an office in monterrey, mexico. we have also established and intend to further grow our presence in the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and latin america. for example, on november 30, 2008, we had 141 full-time employees in mumbai and budapest, compared to 67 on november 30, 2007. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we may incur unanticipated costs in connection with establishing and maintaining offices in emerging market locations. our plans call for us to increase the proportion of our employees in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 29 table of contents risks related to our relationship with morgan stanley morgan stanley owns a controlling interest in our company and the interests of morgan stanley may conflict with ours and with those of our other shareholders. as of november 30, 2008, morgan stanley owned 100.0% of the outstanding shares of our class b common stock. our class a common stock has one vote per share, and our class b common stock generally has five votes per share other than with respect to a limited number of matters specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (such as approval of transactions by which a third-party might acquire control of us). as of november 30, 2008, morgan stanley, as the only holder of shares of class b common stock, controlled approximately 65.7% of the combined voting power of all classes of voting stock, except when amending or altering any provision of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or by-laws so as to adversely affect the rights of the other class. for example, morgan stanley is able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors, who determine our strategic plans, approve major financing decisions and appoint top management. in addition, as a holder of all of our class b common stock, morgan stanley may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in its judgment, could enhance its investment in us, but which might involve risks to holders of our class a common stock or adversely affect us or other investors. because morgan stanley interests as our controlling shareholder may differ from other investors interests, actions taken by morgan stanley with respect to us may not be favorable to other investors. we have also entered into an amended services agreement and a number of other agreements with morgan stanley setting forth various matters governing our relationship with morgan stanley while it remains a significant shareholder in us. for a description of these agreements, see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. these agreements govern the provision of corporate services to us and are likely to affect our ability to make certain acquisitions or to merge or consolidate or to sell all or substantially all our assets. the rights of morgan stanley under these agreements may allow morgan stanley to delay or prevent an acquisition of us or prevent a redemption or repurchase of our common stock that our other shareholders, including you, may consider favorable. we may not be able to terminate these agreements or amend them in a manner we deem more favorable, except in accordance with their terms. conflicts of interest may arise between morgan stanley and us that could be resolved in a manner unfavorable to us. questions relating to conflicts of interest may arise between morgan stanley and us in a number of areas relating to our past and ongoing relationships. areas in which conflicts of interest between morgan stanley and us could arise include, but are not limited to, the following: cross officerships, directorships and stock ownership . the ownership interests of our directors or executive officers in the common stock of morgan stanley or service as a director or officer of both morgan stanley and us could create, or appear to create, conflicts of interest when directors and executive officers are faced with decisions that could have different implications for the two companies. for example, these decisions could relate to (i) the nature, quality and cost of services rendered to us by morgan stanley, (ii) disagreement over the desirability of a potential business or acquisition opportunity or business plans, (iii) employee retention or recruiting or (iv) our dividend policy. intercompany transactions . from time to time morgan stanley or its affiliates may enter into transactions with us or our subsidiaries or other affiliates. for example, we may provide morgan stanley with licenses to certain of our products. although the terms of any such transactions will be established based upon negotiations between morgan stanley and us and, when appropriate, subject to the approval of the independent directors on our board of directors or a committee of disinterested directors, the terms of any such transactions may not be as favorable to us or our subsidiaries or affiliates as may otherwise be obtained in arm length negotiations. 30 table of contents intercompany agreements . we entered into certain agreements with morgan stanley pursuant to which morgan stanley provides us with certain human resources, information technology, accounting, legal and compliance, tax, office space leasing, corporate services, treasury and other services for so long as morgan stanley owns greater than 50% of the total voting power to elect our directors. the services morgan stanley will continue to provide upon owning 50% or less of the total voting power to elect our directors are subject to renegotiation in good faith, and will be provided for a period not to exceed 12 months. it is expected, for so long as morgan stanley owns greater than 50% of the total voting power to elect our directors, that payments for these services will be based on an internal cost allocation methodology based on fully loaded cost ( i.e. , allocated direct costs of providing the services, plus all related overhead and out-of-pocket costs and expenses) and an allocation to us of a portion of compensation-related expenses for morgan stanley senior executives, in each case, consistent with past practices. in addition, conflicts could arise in the interpretations of any extension or renegotiation of these agreements. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. business opportunities . several of our directors, morgan stanley and affiliates of morgan stanley may have or make investments in other companies that may compete with us. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation provides that we have renounced any interest in related business opportunities and that our directors who are employees of morgan stanley or its affiliates (other than us) have no obligation to offer us those opportunities. as a result of these charter provisions, our future competitive position and growth potential could be adversely affected. our historical financial results are derived from our results as a subsidiary of morgan stanley and include allocated costs for functions historically provided by morgan stanley and therefore may not be representative of our results as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical financial information included in this annual report on form 10-k does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during the periods presented and may not be indicative of the results we will achieve over time as a stand-alone public company. the historical costs and expenses reflected in our consolidated financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by morgan stanley, including portions of human resources, information technology, accounting, legal and compliance, tax, office space leasing, corporate services and treasury. these allocations were based on what we and morgan stanley considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. the historical information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or costs and expenses will be over time, or that our costs as a stand-alone company will be similar. for additional information, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, item 6. selected consolidated financial data and the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. since the completion of our ipo in november 2007, we have been establishing our own financial, administrative and other support functions to replace those services provided by morgan stanley and we cannot assure you that over time we will be able to operate our business as effectively or cost efficiently as morgan stanley. historically, we have relied on certain financial, administrative and other resources of morgan stanley to operate our business both domestically and internationally. we completed our ipo in november 2007 and as a result of our ipo, we began enhancing certain financial, legal and compliance, administrative, information technology and other support systems and processes or contracting with third parties to replace morgan stanley systems. 31 table of contents at the time of the ipo, we entered into a services agreement, which was subsequently amended, with morgan stanley pursuant to which morgan stanley will continue to provide some of these services to us for so long as morgan stanley owns greater than 50% of the total voting power to elect our directors. the services morgan stanley will continue to provide upon owning 50% or less of the total voting power to elect our directors are subject to renegotiation in good faith, and will be provided for a period not to exceed 12 months. for so long as morgan stanley owns greater than 50% of the total voting power to elect our directors, compensation for services under the amended services agreement with morgan stanley will be determined, consistent with past practices, using an internal cost allocation methodology based on fully loaded cost ( i.e. , allocated direct costs of providing the services, plus all related overhead and out-of-pocket costs and expenses), as well as the portion of compensation related expenses for morgan stanley senior executives as allocated to us. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us for a description of these arrangements. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, expenses related to services provided by morgan stanley personnel were $18.3 million, $26.4 million and $23.1 million, respectively. for the three-month periods ended november 30, 2008 and 2007, expenses related to services provided by morgan stanley personnel were $2.3 million and $6.6 million, respectively. we currently rely on morgan stanley primarily for certain it-related services. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. the services we have obtained to replace those provided by morgan stanley have been established within the last year and may not be sufficient to meet our needs. upon the sale or other disposition of any portion of our business, assets or properties, morgan stanley obligation to provide any service in respect of such disposed business, assets or properties will terminate. similarly, if our business increases significantly or we acquire any business, assets or properties, morgan stanley will not have to provide any services in respect of such increase or acquired business, assets or properties. these services may not be sufficient to meet our needs and, after these agreements with morgan stanley terminate, we may not be able to replace these services at all or obtain these services at acceptable prices and terms. any failure or significant downturn in our financial or administrative policies and systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in connection with our ipo, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters that may be on terms less favorable to us than if they had been negotiated with another party, and we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. in connection with our ipo, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters while still a majority-owned subsidiary of morgan stanley. accordingly, the terms of these agreements may not reflect those that would have been reached with another party on an arm s-length basis. if these agreements were entered into with another party, we may have obtained more favorable terms. see item 1. business arrangements between morgan stanley and us. pursuant to certain of these agreements, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. we may experience increased costs resulting from a decrease in the purchasing power and other operational efficiencies we have had due to our association with morgan stanley. we have been able to take advantage of morgan stanley purchasing power in the u.s. and internationally in procuring goods, technology and services, including market data, travel, insurance, employee benefit support and audit services. as a stand-alone company, we may be unable to obtain goods, technology and services at prices and on terms as favorable as those available to us prior to becoming a stand-alone company, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 32 table of contents additionally, if we are unable to continue to file combined returns with morgan stanley, our tax liability may also increase due to increased income taxed in certain state and local jurisdictions where combined filings were previously made with morgan stanley. further, morgan stanley has been influential in our ability to attract and retain research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other personnel. as a stand-alone company, it may be more difficult and costly for us to attract and retain such personnel. the development, maintenance, support and use of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see risks related to our business we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we may experience a loss in the marketing and reputational value we currently have due to our association with the morgan stanley name. we believe we have received marketing and reputational benefits from our association with the morgan stanley brand name. as a stand-alone company that may no longer be the case. consequently, our ability to retain existing clients and attract new clients and our reputation may be adversely affected. the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the exchange act and the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ). the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. all of the procedures and practices required as a majority-owned subsidiary of morgan stanley were previously established, but we have established additional procedures and practices as a stand-alone public company. as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur. furthermore, the need to establish the corporate infrastructure demanded of a public company may divert management attention from implementing our growth strategy, which could prevent us from improving our business, results of operations and financial condition. we have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a stand-alone public company. however, the measures we take may not be sufficient to satisfy our obligations as a public company. in addition, we cannot predict or estimate the amount of additional costs we may incur in order to comply with these requirements. we are a controlled company within the meaning of the new york stock exchange rules and, as a result, are exempt from certain corporate governance requirements. morgan stanley continues to control a majority of the voting power of our outstanding common stock. as a result, we are a controlled company within the meaning of the new york stock exchange corporate governance standards. under the new york stock exchange rules, a company of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by another company is a controlled company and need not comply with certain requirements, including (1) the requirement that a majority of the board of directors consist of independent directors, (2) the requirement that the nominating/corporate governance committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities, (3) the requirement that the compensation committee be composed entirely of independent directors with a written charter addressing the committee purpose and responsibilities and (4) the requirement for an annual performance evaluation of the nominating/corporate governance and compensation committees. we intend to 33 table of contents utilize these exemptions. as a result, we will not have a majority of independent directors nor will our nominating and corporate governance and compensation committees consist entirely of independent directors. accordingly, shareholders do not have the same protections afforded to shareholders of companies that are subject to all of the new york stock exchange corporate governance requirements. risks related to ownership of our class a common stock because holders of the shares of class b common stock will control the majority of the voting power of all classes of voting stock, other shareholders will not be able to determine the outcome of shareholder votes. holders of our class a common stock have one vote per share, and holders of our class b common stock generally have five votes per share, other than with respect to a limited number of matters specified in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation (such as approval of transactions by which a third-party might acquire control of us). morgan stanley, as the holder of all of our shares of class b common stock controls approximately 65.7% of the combined voting power of all classes of voting stock other than with respect to those matters. for example, morgan stanley is able to direct the election of all of the members of our board of directors, who determine our strategic plans (including certain acquisitions), approve major financing decisions and appoint top management. in addition, the holders of the class b common stock may seek to cause us to take courses of action that, in their judgment, could enhance their investment in us, but which might involve risks to holders of our class a common stock or adversely affect us or other investors. all of the class b common stock is beneficially owned by morgan stanley and class b shares are only transferable to morgan stanley, capital group international or one of their subsidiaries or affiliates. any such shares of class b common stock transferred to a person other than morgan stanley, capital group international or one of their subsidiaries or affiliates automatically convert into one share of class a common stock upon such disposition. morgan stanley may in the future decide to divest all or a portion of its interest in the class b common stock. if equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our class a common stock, the price of our class a common stock could decline. the trading market for our class a common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. the price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. the market price of our class a common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of etfs; changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; 34 table of contents changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and changes in regulatory and other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our class a common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. this would include sales by morgan stanley and restricted shares of class a common stock and options to purchase shares of class a common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. as of november 30, 2008, 72,354,383 shares of our class a common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. as of november 30, 2008, morgan stanley held 27,708,653.79 shares of our class b common stock. any shares of class b common stock transferred to a person other than morgan stanley, capital group international or one of their subsidiaries or affiliates automatically converts into one share of class a common stock, upon such disposition. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of november 30, 2008, we had issued 98,687 and 8,292 shares of class a common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. 35 table of contents provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our class a common stock. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our class a common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. moreover, we have opted out of the business combination provisions of section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware (the dgcl ) until such time as morgan stanley owns 50% or less of the total voting power to elect our directors, after which we will be governed by these provisions. section 203 prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our class a common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that investors could receive a premium for your class a common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our class a common stock. we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirement and other factors. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 70 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. substantially all of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating income (expense). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately $72.6 million, or 16.9%, of our operating revenues for fiscal year 2008. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, substantially all of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of clients in euros, pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. approximately $60.8 million, or 14.1%, and $56.7 million, or 15.3%, of our revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the majority of which were in euros, pounds sterling and japanese yen. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. although our expenses are generally in u.s. dollars, some of our expenses are incurred in non-u.s. dollar denominated currencies. approximately $81.1 million, or 27.5%, and $55.6 million, or 23.1%, of our expenses for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2008 and 2007, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in swiss francs, pounds sterling, hong kong dollars, euros and japanese yen. expenses paid in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. and replace services provided by morgan stanley which we paid in u.s. dollars. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $4.3 million for fiscal year ended november 30, 2008. the $4.3 million loss was recorded in other expense (income) in our consolidated statements of income. these losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the strengthening of the us dollar. although we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency, we are examining ways to minimize exposure by reducing the value of the assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency of the legal entity in which they reside. 70 table of contents to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase. generally, we do not use derivative financial instruments as a means of hedging this risk; however, we may do so in the future. foreign currency cash balances held overseas are generally kept at levels necessary to meet current operating and capitalization needs. interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $268.1 million, $33.8 million and $24.4 million at november 30, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. these amounts were held primarily in checking money market accounts in the countries where we maintain banking relationships. prior to july 1, 2008, the majority of our excess cash was deposited with morgan stanley. as of november 30, 2008, we did not have any cash deposited with morgan stanley. at november 30, 2007 and 2006, amounts held with morgan stanley were $137.6 million and $330.2 million, respectively. on our statements of financial condition, these amounts are shown as cash deposited with related parties. we received interest at morgan stanley internal prevailing rates on these funds. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. borrowings under the credit facility accrued interest at a variable rate equal to libor plus a fixed margin subject to interest rate step-downs based on the achievement of consolidated leverage ratio conditions (as defined in the credit facility.) on july 8, 2008, we met certain conditions as defined in the credit facility and qualified for a tier change, resulting in a decrease in the libor fixed margin to 2.00% for the term loan a facility and 2.50% for the term loan b facility. in the near-term, we expect to pay down the credit facility with cash generated from our ongoing operations. on february 13, 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements effective through the end of november 2010 for an aggregate notional principal amount of $251.7 million. by entering into these agreements, we reduced interest rate risk by effectively converting floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. this action reduces our risk of incurring higher interest costs in periods of rising interest rates and improves the overall balance between floating and fixed rate debt. the effective fixed rate on the notional principal amount swapped was approximately 5.31% for the year ended november 30, 2008. on november 30, 2008, the effective fixed rate on the notional principal amount swapped was 5.16%. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment under sfas no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. changes in libor will affect the interest rate on the portion of our credit facilities which have not been hedged by the interest rate swaps and, therefore, our costs under the credit facilities. assuming an average of $160.0 million of variable rate debt outstanding, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in libor for a one year period would result in approximately $1.6 million of additional interest rate expense. we recorded a pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income of $3.6 million ($2.3 million after tax) for the year ended november 30, 2008 as a result of the fair value measurement of these swaps. the fair value of these swaps is included in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial condition.risk factors 16 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled special note regarding forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. as of november 30, 2009, we utilized and distributed certain data provided to us by over 235 data sources, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the products of our suppliers have errors, are delayed, have design defects, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. many of these data suppliers compete with one another and, to some extent, with us. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, 16 table of contents including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use and offer our clients and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts would hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. some of our third-party suppliers also are our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products exchange information with clients through a variety of media, including the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex network of internal process and software controls to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in implementation of our internal controls, misappropriation of client data could occur. such internal control inadequacies could damage our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indices from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities and products based on our indices. our index clients rely on us to keep material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index confidential and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have implemented information barrier procedures to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose or an individual deliberately misuses material non-public information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 17 table of contents legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and pending third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider certain aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop, patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra and fea as trademarks and service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other product trademarks and certain service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 11 u.s. and foreign utility patents and one design patent. we currently have 11 u.s. and foreign utility patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure agreements with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure agreement and reveals a trade secret, we could lose the trade secret protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our proprietary information. additionally, the enforceability of our license and non-disclosure agreements and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a nontransferable license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. the enforceability of on-line licenses and terms of use has not been conclusively determined by the courts. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. 18 table of contents pending third-party litigation there is currently litigation pending in the u.s. regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. we are not a party to these suits, but they may have a material impact on our business. in a relevant case in 2006, a federal appeals court ruled against dow jones &amp; company, inc. (dow jones) and the mcgraw-hill companies (mcgraw-hill) in their attempt to prevent international securities exchange, inc. from offering options on etfs based on dow jones and mcgraw-hill indices. in another relevant case, in 2009, the german federal supreme court concluded that the owner of a trademark who publishes an index generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in option warrants issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts in relevant jurisdictions further determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. we have made and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, required to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. we may also be called upon to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. we monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source 19 table of contents code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use, resulting in our loss of rights or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. if our clients are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down or consolidate, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. most of our clients are in the financial services industry. for example, asset managers accounted for 66.6% and 67.6% of our revenues as of november 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. the recent global financial crisis led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. such events impacted our financial results, including our run rates and aggregate and core retention rates, in 2009 and may continue to do so in the near term. 20 table of contents furthermore, if such trends continue, we may not be able to generate future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our clients do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the majority of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. to the extent our clients investment emphasis significantly changes from equity to fixed income securities or multi-asset class or derivative strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. these asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they were 16.3%, 16.9% and 18.6% of revenues for the years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 43.9%, 48.0% and 51.5% of the revenues from our ten largest clients in the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. economic uncertainty and volatile capital markets, such as those witnessed in 2009 and the second half of 2008 as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, as of november 30, 2009, the month-end value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indices was $234.2 billion, which was 96.8% higher than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2008, but the value of such assets at november 30, 2008 was 37.9% lower than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2007. the increase compared to november 30, 2008 was comprised of net asset appreciation of $66.7 billion and $48.5 billion in net asset inflows. continuing economic uncertainty could result in the fluctuation of or declines in our asset-based fees, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. consolidation within our target markets may affect our business. consolidation in the financial services industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. for example, the recent global financial crisis led to the closure or merger of a number of our clients, including broker-dealer, asset manager and hedge fund clients. if consolidation continues, it may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenues are concentrated in some of our largest clients. our clients may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to try to decrease our fees accordingly. for example, competition is intense and increasing among our clients that provide exchange traded funds. the fees they charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments. the market for our products is characterized by shifting client demands, evolving market practices and, for some of our products, rapid technological change. changed client demands, new market practices or new technologies can render existing products obsolete and unmarketable. as a result, our future success will continue to depend upon our ability to develop new products and product enhancements that address the future needs of our target markets and respond to technological and market changes. we may not be successful in developing, introducing, marketing and licensing our new products or product enhancements on a timely and cost effective basis, or at all, and our new products and product enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. in addition, clients may delay purchases in anticipation of new products or product enhancements. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 27.3%, 28.6% and 30.8% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, our largest client organization by revenue, barclays plc and affiliates, accounted for 9.9%, 11.0% and 12.6% of our total revenues, respectively. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2009, approximately 87.5% of the revenue from barclays came from fees based on the assets in barclays exchange traded funds based on msci indices. in december 2009, blackrock, inc. and barclays plc announced the completion of the merger between blackrock, inc. and barclays global investors, which includes the ishares exchange traded funds business. if we combined our revenues from blackrock, inc. with our revenues from the fees attributable to the businesses acquired by blackrock, inc., blackrock inc. would have represented 10.6% of our total revenues for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2009. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their 22 table of contents subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe this practice supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop independently certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us. in addition, barriers to entry to create a single-purpose product may be low in many cases. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth over our operating history. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 table of contents our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth, including in emerging market centers, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1 business. there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a principal element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. 24 table of contents a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 16.3% and 16.9% of operating revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009 and 2008, approximately 12.3% and 14.1%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2009, 46.2% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 39.4% were in japanese yen and 12.6% were in british pounds. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2008, 46.3% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 30.2% were in japanese yen and 20.5% were in british pounds. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 35.0% and 27.5% of our operating expenses for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in swiss francs, british pounds, hong kong dollars, euros, japanese yen, indian rupee and hungarian forint. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $0.4 million for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2009. these losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the strengthening of the u.s. dollar. we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act we believe that our products do not provide investment advice for purposes of the investment advisers act of 1940. future developments in our product line or changes to the 25 table of contents current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible we may become registered as an investment adviser under the investment advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. as a registered investment adviser, we would be subject to the requirements and regulations of the investment advisers act, which relate to, among other things, fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. data privacy legislation changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in customs, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. soft dollars approximately 8%, 12% and 13% of our revenues were paid through soft dollar arrangements for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. u.s. clients accounted for 73%, 62% and 68% of total soft dollar revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. on july 18, 2006, the sec issued interpretive release no. 34-54165, which became effective on july 24, 2006. the release provides guidance on asset managers use of client commissions to pay for brokerage and research services within the scope of section 28(e) of the securities exchange act of 1934 (the exchange act ). the interpretive release outlines a framework for determining what types of research services fall within the safe harbor provisions of that section. market participants had a six-month grace period that ended on january 24, 2007 to bring their soft dollar practices into compliance with the new guidance. we rely on our clients to determine whether our products fall within the description of eligible research services, whether our products provide lawful and appropriate assistance to the money manager in undertaking investment decisions, and whether the commissions are reasonable in relation to the value of the products provided for their particular business in the u.s. and abroad. if clients decide they cannot or will not pay for our products through soft dollar arrangements, or if additional rules are issued or certain interpretations are followed that narrow the definition of research or brokerage services that can be paid for on behalf of a money manager through use of soft dollars in the u.s. or abroad or the safe harbor provisions of section 28(e) of the exchange act are eliminated, our revenues could decrease. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products. however, these provisions have certain exceptions and could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our 26 table of contents management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. on november 14, 2007, we entered into the $500.0 million credit facility. see item 1. business the separation of msci from morgan stanley credit facility and item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. as of november 30, 2009, we had $380.5 million of indebtedness under the credit facility ($338.2 million in long term debt and $42.3 million in current maturities), cash and cash equivalents of $176.0 million and $295.3 million in short-term investments. the credit facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis (except as described in item 1. business the separation of msci from morgan stanley ); and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed (a) 3.75:1.0 through november 30, 2009, (b) 3.50:1.0 from december 1, 2009 through november 30, 2010 and (c) 3.25:1.0 thereafter; and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be (a) 3.00:1.0 through november 30, 2009, (b) 3.50:1.0 from december 1, 2009 through november 30, 2010 and (c) 4.00:1.0 thereafter. in addition, our credit facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. 27 table of contents we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. additionally, in connection with our ipo, we issued founders grants to some of our employees and as these awards vest their effectiveness as a retention tool diminishes. if the equity incentive plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, national disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients may be materially and adversely affected. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. such events could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. 28 table of contents we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. we have established and intend to further grow our presence in the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and latin america. in the last few years, we have opened offices in budapest, dubai, monterrey, mumbai and shanghai. as of november 30, 2009, 43.1% of our employees were located in emerging market centers compared to 28.0% as of november 30, 2008. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. we may incur unanticipated costs in connection with establishing and maintaining offices in emerging market locations. our plans call for us to continue to increase the proportion of our employees in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. risks related to our separation from morgan stanley our historical financial results for the periods before our separation from morgan stanley are derived from our results as a subsidiary of morgan stanley and include allocated costs for functions historically provided by morgan stanley and therefore may not be representative of our results as a stand-alone company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. our historical financial information for the periods before our separation from morgan stanley do not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows we would have achieved as a stand-alone company during those periods and may not be indicative of the results we will achieve over time as a stand-alone public company. the historical costs and expenses reflected in our consolidated financial statements include an allocation for certain corporate functions historically provided by morgan stanley, including portions 29 table of contents of human resources, information technology, accounting, legal and compliance, tax, office space leasing, corporate services and treasury. these allocations were based on what we and morgan stanley considered to be reasonable reflections of the historical utilization levels of these services required in support of our business. the historical information does not necessarily indicate what our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or costs and expenses will be over time. for additional information, see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, item 6. selected consolidated financial data and the notes to our consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. since the completion of our ipo in november 2007, we have established our own financial, administrative and other support functions; including such functions that replace those services historically provided by morgan stanley and we cannot assure you that over time we will be able to operate our business as effectively or cost efficiently as morgan stanley. prior to our separation from morgan stanley, we relied on certain financial, administrative and other resources of morgan stanley to operate our business both domestically and internationally. we completed our ipo in november 2007 and as a result of our ipo, we began enhancing certain financial, legal and compliance, administrative, information technology and other support systems and processes or contracting with third parties to replace morgan stanley systems. in addition to replacing morgan stanley systems, we also created additional systems and processes. in may 2009, morgan stanley sold its remaining equity interest in us and we began operating as a stand-alone company. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, expenses related to services provided by morgan stanley personnel were $1.7 million, $18.3 million and $26.4 million, respectively. as of may 22, 2009, morgan stanley no longer provided corporate functions for us and no additional expense allocations have been recorded by us since that date. the systems and processes we have created or obtained to replace those provided by morgan stanley have been established within the last few years and may not be sufficient to meet our needs. any failure or significant downturn in our financial or administrative policies and systems could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the exchange act and the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ). the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial condition. the sarbanes-oxley act requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. all of the procedures and practices required as a majority-owned subsidiary of morgan stanley were previously established, but we have established additional procedures and practices as a stand-alone public company. as a result, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other expenses that we did not previously incur. we have made, and will continue to make, changes to our internal controls and procedures for financial reporting and accounting systems to meet our reporting obligations as a stand-alone public company. in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. see item 1 business the separation of msci from morgan stanley. 30 table of contents risks related to ownership of our class a common stock if equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our class a common stock, the price of our class a common stock could decline. the trading market for our class a common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. the price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. the market price of our class a common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of etfs; changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and changes in regulatory and other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our class a common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. this would include sales of our common stock 31 table of contents underlying restricted shares of class a common stock and options to purchase shares of class a common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. as of november 30, 2009, 104,781,404 shares of our class a common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of november 30, 2009, we had issued 1,548,403 and 48,517 shares of class a common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our class a common stock. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our class a common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our class a common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your class a common stock in an acquisition. 32 table of contents we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our class a common stock. we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 65 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating income (expense). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately $72.2 million, or 16.3%, of our operating revenues for fiscal year 2009. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of clients in euros, japanese yen, pounds sterling and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. approximately $54.6 million, or 65 table of contents 12.3%, and $60.8 million, or 14.1%, of our revenues for the fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the majority of which were in euros, japanese yen and pounds sterling. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately $102.1 million, or 35.0%, and $81.1 million, or 27.5%, of our expenses for the fiscal years 2009 and 2008, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in pounds sterling, swiss francs, hong kong dollars, hungarian forints, euros, indian rupees and japanese yen. expenses paid in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $0.4 million, $4.3 million, and $0.6 million for the fiscal years 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. these amounts were recorded in other expense (income) in our consolidated statements of income. although we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency, we minimize exposure by reducing the value of the assets and liabilities in currencies other than the functional currency of the legal entity in which they are located. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase. generally, we do not use derivative financial instruments as a means of hedging this risk; however, we may do so in the future. foreign currency cash balances held overseas are generally kept at levels necessary to meet current operating and capitalization needs. interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $176.0 million, $268.1 million, and $33.8 million at november 30, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. these amounts were held primarily in checking and money market accounts in the countries where we maintain banking relationships. prior to july 1, 2008, the majority of our excess cash was deposited with morgan stanley. as of july 1, 2008, we did not have any cash deposited with morgan stanley. at november 30, 2007, amounts held with morgan stanley were $137.6 million. we received interest at morgan stanley internal prevailing rates on these funds. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. borrowings under the credit facility accrued interest at a variable rate equal to libor plus a fixed margin subject to interest rate step-downs based on the achievement of consolidated leverage ratio conditions (as defined in the credit facility.) on july 8, 2008, we met certain conditions as defined in the credit facility and qualified for a tier change, resulting in a decrease in the libor fixed margin to 2.00% for the term loan a facility and 2.50% for the term loan b facility. in the near-term, we expect to pay down the credit facility with cash generated from our ongoing operations. on february 13, 2008, we entered into interest rate swap agreements effective through the end of november 2010 for an aggregate notional principal amount of $251.7 million. by entering into these agreements, we reduced interest rate risk by effectively converting floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt. this action reduces our risk of incurring higher interest costs in periods of rising interest rates and improves the overall balance between floating and fixed rate debt. the effective fixed rate on the aggregate notional principal amount of $229.3 million swapped was approximately 5.29% for the year ended november 30, 2009. on november 30, 2009, the effective fixed rate on the notional principal amount swapped was 5.36%. these swaps are designated as cash flow hedges and qualify for hedge accounting treatment under asc subtopic 815-10, derivatives and hedging. 66 table of contents changes in libor will affect the interest rate on the portion of our credit facilities which have not been hedged by the interest rate swaps and, therefore, our costs under the credit facilities. assuming an average of $160.0 million of variable rate debt outstanding, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in libor for a one year period would result in approximately $1.6 million of additional interest rate expense. we recorded a pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income of $1.7 million ($1.0 million after tax) for fiscal year 2009 as a result of the fair value measurement of these swaps. the fair value of these swaps is included in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial condition.risk factors 20 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled special note regarding forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. as of november 30, 2010, throughout our businesses we utilized in a variety of ways certain data provided to us by over 190 data sources, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. many of these data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. for example, iss relies on a data feed agreement with broadridge financial solutions which allows for a large number of proxy ballots to be received, and proxy votes to be processed, electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in manual processes. if the data feed agreement with broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients voting instructions directly into broadridge proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. since iss also competes with broadridge in some markets with respect to providing certain aspects of proxy voting services, broadridge may have an incentive to not renew iss data feed agreement when its initial term expires in 2011 or to offer renewal terms which we may deem unreasonable. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. 20 table of contents any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, including the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation of client data could occur. such unauthorized disclosure or misappropriation could damage our reputation and/or result in claims against us by our clients and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indices from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indices. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose, or an individual deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. institutional clients of our governance business rely on iss to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies environmental, social and governance attributes. the institutional clients of both our performance and risk and governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which iss provides proxy analyses and ratings or which are the subject of our financial research and analysis products and services. in some cases these institutional clients pay us a significant amount of money for our performance and risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to a corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. as a result, institutional clients, competitors and other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. 21 table of contents through our iss corporate services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. accordingly, there is a potential conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our compensation advisory services, provided to clients of the iss corporate services subsidiary. for example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation proxy items, there may be a perception that the iss team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of our services. we have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. the conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these apparent conflicts of interest, and clients or competitors may question the integrity of our services. in the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and pending third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we would be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 19 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have 8 u.s. and foreign patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients 22 table of contents who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure agreements with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure agreement and reveals a trade secret, we could lose the trade secret protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our proprietary information. additionally, the enforceability of our license and non-disclosure agreements and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a nontransferable license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. the enforceability of on-line licenses and terms of use has not been conclusively determined by the courts. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. third-party litigation there is currently third-party litigation on appeal in the u.s. regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. in july 2010, the circuit court of cook county, illinois found that the trading of index options on the dow jones industrial average ( djia ) and the s&amp;p 500 index by the international stock exchange ( ise ) without a license would misappropriate the index providers rights in their indexes. the ise was permanently restrained and enjoined from listing or providing an exchange market for the trading of djia and/or s&amp;p 500 index options and the options clearing corporation was permanently restrained and enjoined from participating in the facilitation of an ise index option based upon the djia and/or s&amp;p 500 and from issuing, clearing or settling the exercise of such djia and/or s&amp;p 500 index options. this decision is now under appeal. in another relevant case, in 2009, the german federal supreme court concluded that the owner of a trademark who publishes an index generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in option warrants issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. we have made and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. 23 table of contents responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, required to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or required to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. we may also be called upon to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. we monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use, resulting in increased software or data acquisition costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide 24 table of contents enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industry in which we operate and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. this requires accurate anticipation of clients changing needs and emerging investment trends. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients needs and generate the revenues required to provide the desired results. if, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated or if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. also see if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. transitioning clients to enhanced products and services presents execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many cases, including for single-purpose product companies. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those arising from the financial crisis, may lead certain clients to seek products at a lower cost than what we provide. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see part i. item 1. business our competition above. 25 table of contents our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. if our clients are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down or consolidate, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. most of our clients are in the financial services industry. for example, asset managers accounted for 52.4% and 66.6% of our revenues as of november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the global financial crisis led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. such events impacted our financial results, including our run rates and aggregate and core retention rates, in 2009 and 2010 and may continue to do so in the near term. furthermore, if such trends continue, we may not be able to generate future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a result of the global financial crisis, the u.s. congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment, on july 21, 2010, of the dodd-frank act. the dodd-frank act will have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and will impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. the changes resulting from the dodd-frank act will likely have a material impact on many of our clients and could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. if our clients do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. consolidation within our target markets may affect our business. consolidation in the financial services industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. for example, the recent global financial crisis led to the closure or merger of a number of our clients, including broker-dealer, asset manager and hedge fund clients. if consolidation continues, it may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring portfolios. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues and earnings are affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as exchange traded funds and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. these asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they were 16.0%, 16.2% and 16.7% of revenues for the years ended november 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 45.2%, 43.9% and 48.0% of the revenues from our ten largest clients in the fiscal years ended november 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. volatile capital markets, such as those witnessed in 2009 and the second half of 2008 as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, as of november 30, 2010, the month-end value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indices was $311.0 billion, which was 32.8% higher than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2009, and the value of such assets at november 30, 2009 was 96.8% higher than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2008. 26 table of contents a portion of our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenues streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients. our clients may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to try to decrease our fees correspondingly or otherwise lead to a reduction of our fees in certain cases. for example, competition is intense and increasing among our clients that provide exchange traded funds. the fees they charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2010, 2009 and 2008, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 27.4%, 27.3% and 28.6% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2010, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, inc. and affiliates ( blackrock ), accounted for 9.9% our total revenues. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2010, approximately 82.9% of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock exchange traded funds based on msci indices. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. a disproportionately high percentage of contract value in the governance business comes up for renewal in december. while we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 27 table of contents our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth, including in emerging market centers, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we must continue to introduce new products and product enhancements to address our clients changing needs, market changes and technological developments above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, risks related to the acquisition of riskmetrics group, inc. below, item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1 business. 28 table of contents there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. a principal element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see risks related to the acquisition of riskmetrics group, inc. below. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 16.0% and 16.3% of operating revenues for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. 29 table of contents we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, approximately 12.8% and 12.3%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2010, 55.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 28.2% were in japanese yen and 10.3% were in british pounds. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2009, 46.2% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 39.4% were in japanese yen and 12.6% were in british pounds. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 34.2% and 35.0% of our operating expenses for the fiscal years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds, swiss francs, hong kong dollars, hungarian forints, euros, indian rupees and japanese yen. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $3.0 million for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2010. these losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar in the last six months of the fiscal year. we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by iss and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible that in addition to iss, other entities in our corporate family may be required to become registered as an investment adviser under the advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. 30 table of contents data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. proposed regulation for fiduciaries . on october 21, 2010, the u.s. department of labor issued a proposed regulation that would expand the definition of a fiduciary to any entity that provides investment advice to employee benefit plans for a fee or other compensation for purposes of the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended ( erisa ). the proposed regulation also provides that consultants that are investment advisers as defined in the advisers act could be considered fiduciaries. if, as a result of being registered as an investment advisor with the sec, iss is deemed to be a fiduciary under erisa, it could be subject to the rules and regulations thereunder, including those related to conflicts of interest and this could have an impact on the manner in which iss and its affiliates conduct business. proposed proxy plumbing regulations . on july 14, 2010, the sec voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release focusing on a wide range of topics related to the u.s. proxy voting system. the release is organized around, and seeks comment on, three general topics: (1) the accuracy, transparency and efficiency of the proxy voting system; (2) communications with shareholders and shareholder participation in voting; and (3) the relationship between voting power and economic interest, including questions about proxy advisory firms, such as iss, and concerns raised by corporate issuers and other observers about the role, power and manner in which proxy advisory firms operate. the sec may, but is not required, to engage in rulemaking with respect to the various issues and questions raised in the concept release. at this point we are unable to determine whether the sec will pursue rulemaking on these matters and, if so, the extent to which any rule might impact our businesses, whether the process by which we provide proxy research and voting services to clients, the manner in which iss operates as a proxy advisory firm or otherwise. however, as with any regulatory change, we may have to change business practices and operational procedures and incur costs in response to possible modifications to the proxy system that could result from any rulemaking that stems from the concept release. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products. however, these provisions have certain exceptions and could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 31 table of contents iss products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. consequently, we may be exposed to potential liability claims brought by iss clients or third parties as a result of the operational failure of our products and services. iss products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. if iss were to fail to provide the services provided for in its client contracts, we could be required to provide credits to its clients and in some cases we may be subject to contractual penalties. iss client agreements generally have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by its clients or other third parties based on the operational failure of its products and services. however, these provisions could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of management, personnel, financial and other resources. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in connection with our acquisition of riskmetrics, on june 1, 2010, we entered into a senior secured credit agreement, which is comprised of (i) a 1,275.0 million six-year term loan facility and (ii) a $100.0 million five-year revolving credit facility ( new credit facility ). see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. the new credit facility replaced our senior credit facility of $70.9 million and the senior secured facilities of riskmetrics of $206.7 million outstanding as of may 31, 2010. as of november 30, 2010, we had $1,268.6 million of indebtedness under the new credit facility ($56.0 million in current maturities and $1,212.6 million in long term debt), $226.6 million of cash and cash equivalents and $73.9 million in short-term investments. during first quarter 2011, we will be required to make a payment under the excess cash flow provision of the new credit facility of approximately $56.0 million. the new credit facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the new credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the new credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the new credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed (a) 4.0:1.00 through february 28, 2011, (b) 3.75:1.00 from march 1, 2011 through may 31, 2011, (c) 3.50:1.00 from june 1, 2011 through august 31, 2011, (d) 3.25:1.00 from september 1, 2011 through december 31, 2011 and (e) 2.75:1.00 thereafter; and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the new credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least (a) 4.50:1.00 through february 28, 2011 and (b) 5.00:1.00 thereafter. on december 10, 2010, our board of directors approved a change in our fiscal year end from november 30 th to december 31 st , commencing with the twelve-month period ended december 31, 2011. the measurement periods for compliance with the financial ratios will be adjusted accordingly. in addition, our new credit facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. 32 table of contents in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. because the new credit facility resulted in a substantial increase in our level of indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following the completion of the acquisition in comparison to periods prior to the acquisition, the potential for the occurrence of the consequences described in the preceding sentence could be increased compared to periods prior to the acquisition. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. additionally, in connection with our ipo, we issued founders grants to some of our employees and as these awards vest (the final tranche representing 25% of the total award will vest in november 2011) their effectiveness as a retention tool diminishes. if the equity incentive plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, national disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients may be materially and adversely affected. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. 33 table of contents such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. we have established and intend to further grow our presence in mexico, the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and central and south america. in the last few years, we have opened offices in budapest, dubai, monterrey, mumbai and shanghai. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the united states and a number of those employees are located in emerging market centers. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our office and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the united states, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the united states. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may incur unanticipated costs in connection with establishing and maintaining offices in emerging market locations. our plans call for us to continue to increase the proportion of our employees in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. 34 table of contents although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which iss clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. iss historical growth has been due, in large part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. to the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for iss products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. to the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our riskmetrics acquisition could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,422.9 million recorded on our balance sheet as of november 30, 2010. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. we have engaged in hedging transaction and may engage in other hedging transactions which involve risks that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in july 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk and to manage interest expense, and we may engage in similar transactions in the future. as of november 30, 2010, the interest rate swaps had an aggregate notional principal amount of $445.1 million and a fair value liability of $1.8 million. our interest rate swaps effectively changed a portion of our variable-rate debt obligations pursuant to our credit facilities to fixed-rate debt obligations. developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivate instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivate instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our economic hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 35 table of contents the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange. for example, the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our class a common stock if equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our class a common stock, the price of our class a common stock could decline. the trading market for our class a common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. the price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. the market price of our class a common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of etfs; changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; 36 table of contents changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions; and changes in regulatory and other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our class a common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of class a common stock and options to purchase shares of class a common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. as of november 30, 2010, 119,522,043 shares of our class a common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of november 30, 2010, we had issued 2,947,305 and 66,605 shares of class a common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of november 30, 2010, we had issued 1,037,836 shares of class a common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. 37 table of contents provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our class a common stock. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our class a common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our class a common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your class a common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our class a common stock. we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. risks related to the acquisition of riskmetrics group, inc. we may fail to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger, which could adversely affect the value of our class a common stock. the success of the merger will depend, in part, on our ability to realize the anticipated benefits and cost savings from combining our business with riskmetrics business. our ability to realize these anticipated benefits and cost savings is subject to certain risks including: 38 table of contents our ability to successfully and cost effectively combine our business with riskmetrics business; whether the combined businesses will perform as expected; the possibility that we paid more than the value we will derive from the acquisition; the reduction of our cash available for operations and other uses, the increase in amortization expense related to identifiable assets acquired and the incurrence of indebtedness to finance the acquisition; and the assumption of certain known and unknown liabilities of riskmetrics. if we are not able to successfully combine our business with riskmetrics business within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the anticipated benefits and cost savings of the merger may not be realized fully or at all or take longer to realize than expected, we may not perform as expected and the price of our shares of common stock may be adversely affected. it is possible that the integration process could result in the loss of key employees, the disruption of our ongoing business or in unexpected integration issues, higher than expected integration costs and an overall integration process that takes longer than originally anticipated. specifically, issues that must be addressed in integrating the operations of riskmetrics into our operations in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger so we perform as expected, include, among other things: combining the companies sales, marketing, data, operations and research and development functions; integrating the companies technologies, products and services; identifying and eliminating redundant and underperforming operations and assets; harmonizing the companies operating practices, employee development and compensation programs, internal controls and other policies, procedures and processes; addressing possible differences in business backgrounds, corporate cultures and management philosophies; consolidating the companies corporate, administrative and information technology infrastructure; coordinating sales, distribution and marketing efforts; managing the movement of certain positions to different locations, including certain of our offices outside the u.s.; maintaining existing agreements with customers and suppliers and avoiding delays in entering into new agreements with prospective customers and suppliers; coordinating geographically dispersed organizations; and consolidating our offices with those of riskmetrics that are currently in the same location. in addition, at times, the attention of certain members of our management and resources may be focused on the integration of the businesses of the two companies and diverted from day-to-day business operations, which may disrupt our business. our business relationships, including client relationships, may be subject to disruption due to uncertainty associated with the merger. parties with which we do business, including clients and suppliers, may experience uncertainty associated with the merger, including with respect to our current or future business relationships. our business relationships may be subject to disruption as clients, suppliers and others may attempt to negotiate changes in existing business relationships or consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. these disruptions could have an adverse effect on the businesses, financial condition, results of operations or prospects of the combined business. 39 table of contents our future results may suffer if we do not effectively manage riskmetrics risk management platform and riskmetrics other operations. we plan to continue to work on combining riskmetrics risk management platform with our expertise in portfolio equity models and analytics to provide clients with the capability to understand risk across their entire investment processes. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this combination as well as riskmetrics other businesses, including its corporate governance operation, which poses challenges for management, including challenges relating to the management and monitoring of new operations and the coordination of activities across a larger organization. we cannot assure you that it will be successful or that we will realize expected operational efficiencies, cost savings, revenue enhancement and other benefits currently anticipated from the merger. we may have difficulty attracting, motivating and retaining executives and other key employees as a result of the merger. uncertainty about the success of the integration process and the effect of the merger on employees may have an adverse effect on the combined business. this uncertainty may impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. employee retention may be particularly challenging during the integration process, as employees may experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined business. if key employees depart because of issues relating to the uncertainty and difficulty of integration, financial incentives or a desire not to continue as employees of the combined business, we may have to incur significant costs in identifying, hiring and retaining replacements for departing employees, which could adversely affect our ability to realize the anticipated benefits of the merger. we will continue to incur restructuring and integration-related costs in connection with the merger. we expect to continue to incur a number of non-recurring costs associated with combining the operations of the two companies. the substantial majority of non-recurring expenses resulting from the merger will be comprised of restructuring costs related to the elimination of overlapping positions and duplicative occupancy costs and the termination of overlapping vendor contracts. we will also incur fees and costs related to the continued implementation of integration plans. as of november 30, 2010, we incurred $10.0 million of restructuring and integration related fees and expense. we continue to assess the magnitude of these costs and additional unanticipated costs may be incurred in the integration of the two companies businesses. although we expect that the elimination of duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the businesses, should allow us to offset incremental restructuring and merger-related integration costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. the merger may not be accretive, and may be dilutive, to our earnings per share, which may negatively affect the market price of our class a common stock. we currently anticipate that the merger will be accretive to earnings per share during the first full calendar year after the merger. this expectation is based on preliminary estimates that may materially change. in addition, future events and conditions could decrease or delay the accretion that is currently expected or could result in dilution, including adverse changes in market conditions, additional transaction and integration related costs and other factors such as the failure to realize all of the benefits anticipated in the merger. any dilution of, or decrease or delay of any accretion to, our earnings per share could cause the price of our common stock to decline. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 80 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 16.0% and 16.3% of operating revenues for the years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, approximately 12.8% and 12.3%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended november 30, 2010, 55.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 28.2% were in japanese yen and 10.3% were in british pounds. for the year ended november 30, 2009, 46.2% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 39.4% were in japanese yen and 12.6% were in british pounds. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 34.2% and 35.0% of our operating expenses for the years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds, swiss francs, hong kong dollars, hungarian forints, euros, indian rupees and japanese yen. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, a loss resulted from the devaluation of the value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $3.0 million for the year ended november 30, 2010. these losses on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar in the last six months of the fiscal year. we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $226.6 million at november 30, 2010 and $176.0 million at november 30, 2009. these amounts were held primarily in checking and money market accounts in 79 table of contents the countries where we maintain banking relationships. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. at november 30, 2010 and 2009, we had invested $73.9 million and $295.3 million, respectively, in debt securities with maturity dates ranging from 91 to 365 days from the date of purchase. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. borrowings under the new credit facility will bear interest at a rate equal to the sum of the greater of the london interbank offered rate and 1.50%, and a margin of 3.25%, which margin will be subject to adjustment based on our leverage ratio. on july 21, 2010, the company entered into two interest rate swap agreements for an aggregate notional principal amount of $446.3 million ( new swap agreements ) amortizing through august 2013. the new swap agreements were designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk and qualify for hedge accounting treatment under asc subtopic 815-10. the effective fixed rate on the aggregate notional principal amount swapped of $445.1 million on november 30, 2010 was 5.12%. changes in libor will affect the interest rate on the portion of our credit facilities which have not been hedged by the interest rate swaps and, therefore, our costs under the new credit facility. assuming an average of $824.6 million of variable rate debt outstanding, a hypothetical 221 basis point increase in libor for a one year period would result in approximately $8.2 million of additional interest rate expense. we recorded a pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income of $3.6 million ($2.2 million after tax) for the year ended november 30, 2010 as a result of the fair value measurement of these swaps. the fair value of these swaps is included in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial condition.risk factors 17 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. throughout our businesses, we utilize certain data provided by third party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. as of december 31, 2011, we had over 200 such data suppliers. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. many of these data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. for example, iss relies on a data feed agreement with broadridge financial solutions which allows for a large number of proxy ballots to be received, and proxy votes to be processed, electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in manual processes. if the data feed agreement with broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients voting instructions directly into broadridge proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. since iss also competes with broadridge in some markets with respect to providing certain aspects of proxy voting services, there may be circumstances under which broadridge may have an incentive to not renew iss data feed agreement or to offer renewal terms which we may deem unreasonable. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted 17 table of contents use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, including the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation could damage our reputation and/or result in claims against us by our clients and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if a failure of our internal controls results in a security or privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indices from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indices. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose, or an individual deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information 18 table of contents barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. institutional clients of our governance business rely on iss to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies environmental, social and governance attributes. the institutional clients of both our performance and risk and governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which iss provides proxy analyses and ratings or which are the subject of our financial research and analysis products and services. in some cases these institutional clients pay us a significant amount of money for our performance and risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to a corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. as a result, institutional clients, competitors and other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. through our iss corporate services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. accordingly, there is a potential conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our compensation advisory services, provided to clients of the iss corporate services subsidiary. for example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation proxy items, there may be a perception that the iss team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of our services. we have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. the conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these potential conflicts of interest, and clients or competitors may question the integrity of our services. in the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and pending third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent 19 table of contents as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 21 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have 5 u.s. and foreign patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license agreements of non-disclosure obligations and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a nontransferable license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. the enforceability of on-line licenses and terms of use has not been conclusively determined by the courts. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. third-party litigation there is currently third-party litigation on appeal in the u.s. regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. in july 2010, the circuit court of cook county, illinois found that the trading of index options on the dow jones industrial average ( djia ) and the s&amp;p 500 index by the international stock exchange ( ise ) without a license would misappropriate the index providers rights in their indexes. the ise was permanently restrained and enjoined from listing or providing an exchange market for the trading of djia and/or s&amp;p 500 index options and the options clearing corporation was permanently restrained and enjoined 20 table of contents from participating in the facilitation of an ise index option based upon the djia and/or s&amp;p 500 and from issuing, clearing or settling the exercise of such djia and/or s&amp;p 500 index options. this decision is now under appeal. in another relevant case, in 2009, the german federal supreme court concluded that the owner of a trademark who publishes an index generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in option warrants issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. we have made, are making and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. we monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 table of contents we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third party software and data has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased software or data acquisition costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industry in which we operate and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. this requires accurate anticipation of clients changing needs and emerging investment trends. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients needs and generate the revenues required to provide the desired results. if, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our 22 table of contents clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated or if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors and that could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. also see if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. integrating existing products and platforms and transitioning clients to enhanced products and services presents execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. there may also be consolidation among our competitors in the form of joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for better capitalized competitors. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many cases, including for single-purpose product companies. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those arising from current economic conditions, may lead certain clients to seek products at a lower cost than what we provide. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see part i. item 1. business our competition above. our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. if our clients are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down, consolidate, limit or reduce spending, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. most of our clients are in the financial services industry. for example, asset managers accounted for 60.5% and 52.4% of our revenues as of december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, respectively. the global financial crisis led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. such events impacted our financial results, including our run rates and aggregate and core retention rates, in 2009 and 2010, and, to a lesser extent, 2011. ongoing economic weakness and volatility continues to cause uncertainty and pressure on our clients spending, resulting in longer selling and renewing cycles, increased sales expenses and potentially increased cancellations. if such trends continue, we may not be able to generate or accurately plan for future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a result of the global financial crisis, the u.s. congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank act. the dodd-frank act will have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and will impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. although many 23 table of contents of the effects of the dodd-frank act will be largely unknown until the regulations have been finalized and implemented, complying with its requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. if our clients do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. consolidation within our target markets may affect our business. consolidation in the financial services industry could reduce our existing client base and the number of potential clients. for example, the recent global financial crisis led to the closure or merger of a number of our clients, including broker-dealer, asset manager and hedge fund clients. if consolidation continues, it may negatively impact our ability to generate future growth and may reduce demand for our products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring portfolios. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. these asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for approximately 15.6%, 16.2% and 16.7% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 44.7%, 45.2% and 43.9% of the revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the value of an investment product assets can increase or decrease along with market performance and inflows and outflows, which impact our revenues. volatile capital markets, such as those experienced recently, as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, as of december 31, 2011, the month-end value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indices was $301.6 billion, which was 3.0% lower than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2010, and the value of such assets at november 30, 2010 was 32.8% higher than the value of such assets as of november 30, 2009. if the value of passive investments linked to our indices decreases, our asset-based fee revenues are likely to decline. a portion of our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 table of contents our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenues streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients. our clients may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to try to decrease our fees correspondingly or otherwise lead to a reduction of our fees in certain cases. for example, competition is intense and increasing among our clients that provide exchange traded funds. the fees they charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in august 2011, blackrock, inc., which together with its affiliates accounted for 8.1% and 9.9% of our revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, respectively, announced that it was seeking regulatory clearance to create indices for use as the basis of exchange traded funds that it would manage. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 25.8% and 27.4% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, inc. and affiliates ( blackrock ), accounted for 8.1% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, approximately 83.9% and 82.9%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock etfs based on msci indices. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. a disproportionately high percentage of contract value in the governance business comes up for renewal in december. while we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent 25 table of contents that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to manage our operating costs as anticipated or our operating costs are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. we may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees and other costs. additionally, we may not fully realize our strategic initiatives to manage our cost structure. if operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our profitability may be reduced and our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by global factors that are beyond our control, including macroeconomic, political and market conditions, the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, the level and volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates, inflation and ratings downgrades. financial markets in the united states, europe and asia have experienced disruption in the past year, and near-term predictions for the growth of the global economy remain weak. concerns over the european debt crisis, the potential collapse of the euro, ratings downgrades, the ability of the u.s. government to manage the u.s. deficit and prolonged high unemployment have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and markets going forward. while we do not concentrate a significant amount of business in any one eurozone country, we did derive 31.0% of our 2011 revenue from europe. the general financial instability in any eurozone country could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the european union. unfavorable changes in global economic 26 table of contents conditions may negatively impact the demand for our products and services and may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services or cause them to go out of business entirely, resulting in increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. cash flows may also be impacted resulting in restricted access to capital markets, changes in currency exchange rates and delayed or underpayment by our customers. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth, including in emerging market centers, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1 business. there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any future acquisitions could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 27 table of contents our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 15.6% and 16.3% of operating revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. while we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, approximately 13.4% and 12.8%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011, 60.6% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.9% were in japanese yen and 9.9% were in british pounds. for the fiscal year ended november 30, 2010, 55.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 28.2% were in japanese yen and 10.3% were in british pounds. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 34.1% and 34.2% of our operating expenses for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds, swiss francs, hong kong dollars, euros, hungarian forints, indian rupees, mexican pesos and japanese yen. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange gains of $1.1 million for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2011. the gains on foreign currency exchange were primarily due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar as compared to the japanese yen in the fiscal year. we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 28 table of contents changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by iss and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible that in addition to iss, other entities in our corporate family may be required to become registered as an investment adviser under the advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. proposed regulation for fiduciaries . on october 21, 2010, the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) issued a proposed regulation that would expand the definition of fiduciary under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended ( erisa ). as proposed, the definition of fiduciary would include, among others, an investment adviser that provides advice and recommendations to employee benefit plans regarding exercise of rights appurtenant to shares of stock ( e.g. , proxy voting). if this regulation were adopted as proposed, iss could be deemed to be a fiduciary for purposes of erisa. as such, it would be subject to erisa prohibited transaction ( e.g. , conflict) provisions, which could have an impact on the manner in which iss and its affiliates conduct business. on september 19, 2011, the dol announced that it had withdrawn this proposal and would re-propose the regulation sometime in early 2012. proposed proxy plumbing regulations . on july 14, 2010, the sec voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release focusing on a wide range of topics related to the u.s. proxy voting system. the release is organized around, and seeks comment on, three general topics: (1) the accuracy, transparency and efficiency of the proxy voting system; (2) communications with shareholders and 29 table of contents shareholder participation in voting; and (3) the relationship between voting power and economic interest, including questions about proxy advisory firms, such as iss, and concerns raised by corporate issuers and other observers about the role, power and manner in which proxy advisory firms operate. the sec may, but is not required, to engage in rulemaking with respect to the various issues and questions raised in the concept release. at this point we are unable to determine whether the sec will pursue rulemaking on these matters and, if so, the extent to which any rule might impact our businesses, including the process by which we provide proxy research and voting services to clients, the manner in which iss operates as a proxy advisory firm, the business model that provides for both voting services to investor clients and governance advice to corporate clients, or otherwise. however, as with any regulatory change, we may have to change business practices and operational procedures and incur costs in response to possible modifications to the proxy system that could result from any rulemaking that stems from the concept release. proposed european benchmarks regulation . on october 20, 2011, the european commission issued proposals for mifid/mifir 2 (com (2011) 0652 and com (2011) 0656), which among other things would mandate that where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark would be required to ensure that certain clearing entities and trading venues would be entitled to licenses to relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark. access to such information would have to be granted by the benchmark owner on a reasonable commercial basis, which in any event would be at a price no higher than the lowest price at which access to the benchmark is granted to another clearing entity or trading venue for clearing and trading purposes. at this point, we do not know whether the european commission will adopt this or a similar proposal, or if it does so, when such a regulation would affect our index licensing business. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products. however, these provisions have certain exceptions and could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. iss products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. consequently, we may be exposed to potential liability claims brought by iss clients or third parties as a result of the operational failure of our products and services. iss products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. if iss were to fail to provide the services provided for in its client contracts, we could be required to provide credits to its clients and in some cases we may be subject to contractual penalties. iss client agreements generally have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by its clients or other third parties based on the operational failure of its products and services. however, these provisions could be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, could involve a significant commitment of management, personnel, financial and other resources. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 table of contents our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in connection with our acquisition of riskmetrics, on june 1, 2010, we entered into a senior secured credit agreement, which is comprised of (i) a 1,275.0 million six-year term loan facility and (ii) a $100.0 million five-year revolving credit facility ( new credit facility ). see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. the new credit facility replaced our senior credit facility of $70.9 million and the senior secured facilities of riskmetrics of $206.7 million outstanding as of may 31, 2010. on march 14, 2011, we completed the repricing of the existing senior secured term loan facility under the new credit facility pursuant to amendment no. 2 which provided for the incurrence of a new senior secured loan in an aggregate principal amount of $1,125.0 million. the proceeds of this term loan, together with cash on hand, were used to repay the outstanding balance of the existing senior secured term loan. this term loan matures in 2017. as of december 31, 2011, we had $1,077.8 million of indebtedness under the new credit facility, as amended, ($11.3 million in current maturities and $1,066.5 million in long term debt), $252.2 million of cash and cash equivalents and $140.5 million in short-term investments. the new credit facility, as amended, is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the new credit facility, as amended, contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the new credit facility, as amended, also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis through the termination of the new credit facility, as amended: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the new credit facility, as amended) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed 3.25:1.00 and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the new credit facility, as amended) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least 5.00:1.00. in addition, our new credit facility, as amended, contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. in addition, we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. because the new credit facility resulted in a substantial increase in our level of indebtedness and higher debt-to-equity ratio following the completion of the acquisition in comparison to periods prior to the acquisition, the potential for the occurrence of the consequences described in the preceding sentence could be increased compared to periods prior to the acquisition. 31 table of contents we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. additionally, in connection with our ipo, we issued founders grants to some of our employees, the final tranche of which vested in november 2011 and are therefore no longer effective as a retention tool. if the equity incentive plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, national disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. we have experienced and may experience again in the future denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services, may be materially and adversely affected. we could be required to provide service credits, and experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also experience increased cancellations and operating expenses to defend against and protect us from such disruptions and attacks, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the 32 table of contents data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. we are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. we have established and intend to further grow our presence in mexico, the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and south america. in the last few years, we have opened offices in budapest, dubai, monterrey, seoul and shanghai. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the united states and a number of those employees are located in emerging market centers. in many countries, the laws and regulations applicable to the financial services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the united states, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the united states. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may incur unanticipated costs in connection with establishing and maintaining offices in emerging market locations. our plans call for us to continue to increase the proportion of our employees in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. 33 table of contents although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which iss clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. iss historical growth has been due, in large part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. to the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for iss products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. to the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,353.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2011. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. we have engaged in hedging transactions and may engage in other hedging transactions which involve risks that could have a materially adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. in july 2010, we entered into two interest rate swap agreements to reduce our interest rate risk and to manage interest expense. on march 22, 2011, we terminated our then-existing interest rate swaps and simultaneously entered into new interest rate swaps to hedge the 2011 term loan variable-rate debt, and we may engage in similar transactions in the future. as of december 31, 2011, the interest rate swaps had an aggregate notional principal amount of $419.8 million and a fair value liability of $2.4 million. our interest rate swaps effectively changed a portion of our variable-rate debt obligations pursuant to our credit facilities to fixed-rate debt obligations. developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivate instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivate instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our economic hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. 34 table of contents the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange. for example, the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the ongoing provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our class a common stock if equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our class a common stock, the price of our class a common stock could decline. the trading market for our class a common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. the price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. the market price of our class a common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses for you. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our class a common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of etfs; changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; 35 table of contents regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory and other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our class a common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our class a common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our class a common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of class a common stock and options to purchase shares of class a common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2011, 121,212,191 shares of our class a common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of december 31, 2011, we had issued 4,280,489 and 84,215 shares of class a common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci class a common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of december 31, 2011, we had issued 1,915,354 shares of class a common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2011, we had issued 973,968 shares of class a common stock under this plan, which terminates on june 30, 2012. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. 36 table of contents provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our class a common stock. provisions of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our class a common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our class a common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your class a common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our class a common stock. we do not intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock for the foreseeable future. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 79 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 15.6% and 16.0% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us 79 table of contents under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, approximately 13.4% and 12.8%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2011, 60.6% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.9% were in japanese yen and 9.9% were in british pounds. for the year ended november 30, 2010, 55.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 28.2% were in japanese yen and 10.3% were in british pounds. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 34.1% and 34.2% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2011 and november 30, 2010, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds, swiss francs, hong kong dollars, euros, hungarian forints, indian rupees, mexican pesos and japanese yen. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in value of the functional currency. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange gains of $1.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 and foreign exchange losses of $3.0 million and $0.4 million for the years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. the gains on foreign currency exchange in the year ended december 31, 2011 were primarily due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar as compared to the japanese yen in the fiscal year. we do not currently hedge the foreign exchange risk of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $252.2 million and $269.4 million at december 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively. these amounts were held primarily in checking and money market accounts in the countries where we maintain banking relationships. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. at december 31, 2011 and 2010, we had invested $140.5 million and $72.8 million, respectively, in debt securities with maturity dates ranging from 91 to 360 days from the date of purchase. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. borrowings under the new credit facility bear interest at a rate equal to the sum of the greater of the london interbank offered rate or 1.00%, and a margin of 2.75%, which margin will be subject to adjustment based on our leverage ratio. the company entered into interest rate swap agreements which will be amortized through august 2013. the swap agreements were designated as cash flow hedges of interest rate risk and qualify for hedge accounting treatment under asc subtopic 815-10. changes in libor will affect the interest rate on the portion of our credit facilities which have not been hedged by the interest rate swaps and, therefore, our costs under the credit facilities. assuming an average of $661.8 million of variable rate debt outstanding, a hypothetical 1.42% basis point increase in libor for a one year period would result in approximately $6.6 million of additional interest rate expense. we recorded a pre-tax loss in other comprehensive income of $2.4 million ($1.5 million after tax) for the year ended december 31, 2011 as a result of the fair value measurement of these swaps. the fair value of these swaps is included in other accrued liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial condition. 80 table of contentsrisk factors 15 risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. throughout our businesses, we utilize certain data provided by third party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. as of december 31, 2012, there were over 200 such data suppliers. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. many of our data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. for example, iss relies on a data feed agreement with broadridge financial solutions which allows for a large number of proxy ballots to be received, and proxy votes to be processed, electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in manual processes. if the data feed agreement with broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients voting instructions directly into broadridge proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to renegotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. 15 table of contents our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, and in our largest market, the united states. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to decrease our fees correspondingly or otherwise lead to a reduction of our fees in certain cases. see our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, or other factors that are tied to the calculation of our fees for certain index-linked investment products below. competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide exchange traded funds, among other products. the fees etf providers charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. for example, on october 15, 2012, blackrock announced that its ishares etf business launched a new series of funds based on certain msci investable market indices pursuant to a license with fee levels that are lower than those the company currently receives with respect to existing ishares etfs based on msci standard indices. additionally, clients that have licensed our indices to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indices and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, on october 2, 2012, we announced that vanguard had informed the company of its decision to no longer use msci indices as the basis for certain of its index funds, including both etf and other share classes, beginning in 2013, representing a loss of run rate of approximately $24.8 million at december 31, 2012. the ability of our licensees to cease using our indices is generally true not just with respect to an index use as the basis of an etf but also with respect to its use as the basis of other financial products, including mutual funds and institutional funds. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients etfs and institutional funds based on the same indices, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the same index as the basis of the other type of product. our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, or other factors that are tied to the calculation of our fees for certain index-linked investment products. a decrease in our fees for these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. clients that use our indices as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. the value of an investment product assets can increase or decrease along with market performance and inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. in addition, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in a product provider total expense ratio ( ter ). in those cases, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for approximately 14.8%, and 15.6% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 43.3% and 44.7% of the revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. volatile capital markets, such as those experienced recently, as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, as of december 31, 2012, the month-end value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indices was $402.3 billion, which was 33.4% higher than the value of such assets as of december 31, 2011, and 10.6% higher than the value of such assets at september 30, 2012. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 25.0% and 25.8% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2012, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 7.6% our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 81.7% and 83.9%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock exchange traded funds based on msci indices. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 table of contents our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, in august 2011, blackrock announced that it was seeking regulatory clearance to create indices for use as the basis of exchange traded funds that it would manage. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation could damage our reputation and/or result in claims against us by our clients or regulators and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, on september 14, 2012, we received a wells notice from the staff of the sec in connection with allegations that an iss employee provided confidential information about how clients voted their proxies to proxy solicitors in return for cash and other gifts. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indices from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indices can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indices. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our indices. if our information barrier procedures fail and we inadvertently disclose, or an individual deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indices, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permitted our clients to list exchange traded funds or other financial products based on our indices only if we provided a representation to the exchange that we had reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our indices. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our indices, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, 17 table of contents time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 21 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have four u.s. and foreign patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license agreements of non-disclosure obligations and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under on-line licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. third-party litigation there has been recent third-party litigation in the u.s. regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether companies may issue and trade investment products based on a publicly-available index without the need for permission from (or payment to) the index owner. in july 2010, the circuit court of cook county, illinois found that the trading of index options on the dow jones industrial average ( djia ) and the s&amp;p 500 index by the international stock exchange ( ise ) without a license would misappropriate the index providers rights in their indexes. the ise was permanently restrained and enjoined from listing or providing an exchange market for the trading of djia and/or s&amp;p 500 index options and the options clearing corporation was permanently restrained and enjoined from participating in the facilitation of an ise index option based upon the djia and/or s&amp;p 500 and from issuing, clearing or settling the exercise of such djia and/or s&amp;p 500 index options. this decision was affirmed on appeal by the illinois appellate court in may 2012. the illinois supreme court refused to hear the ise appeal of the illinois appellate court decision. in another relevant case, in 2009, the german federal supreme court concluded that the owner of a trademark who publishes an index generally available to all market participants 18 table of contents cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in option warrants issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indices, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations below. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of integral technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have in recent years increasingly pursued patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model or software application, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. we have made, are making and expect to continue making expenditures related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. we monitor our use of open source code to attempt to avoid subjecting our products to conditions we do not intend. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third party software and data has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased software or data acquisition 19 table of contents costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current and potential clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industry in which we operate and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. this requires accurate anticipation of clients changing needs and emerging investment trends. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients needs and generate the revenues required to provide the desired results. if, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated or if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. also see if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. integrating existing products and platforms and transitioning clients to enhanced products and services presents execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. there may also be consolidation among our competitors in the form of joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for better capitalized competitors. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many cases, including for single-purpose product companies. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers 20 table of contents to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or equity indices. profit margin considerations, including those arising from financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients resulting from current economic conditions, may lead certain clients to seek products at a lower cost than what we provide. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see our clients that pay us a fee based on assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees below. see part i. item 1. business our competition above. our business is dependent on the financial viability of our clients. if our clients consolidate or are negatively impacted by adverse conditions in the financial markets and are forced to shut-down, consolidate, limit or reduce spending, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. most of our clients are in the financial services industry. for example, asset managers accounted for 60.7% and 60.5% of our revenues as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. ongoing economic weakness and volatility led to the closure or consolidation of a number of our clients, including asset manager, broker-dealer and hedge fund clients. this impacted our financial results, including our run rates and aggregate and core retention rates, in 2012 and 2011. ongoing economic weakness and volatility continues to cause uncertainty and pressure on our clients spending, resulting in longer selling and renewing cycles, increased sales expenses and potentially increased cancellations. if such trends continue, we may not be able to generate or accurately plan for future growth and demand for our products may decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as a result of the global financial crisis, the u.s. congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank act. the dodd-frank act will have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and will impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. although many of the effects of the dodd-frank act will be largely unknown until the regulations have been finalized and implemented, complying with its requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. if our clients consolidate or do not remain financially viable or if the negative conditions in the financial markets persist or worsen, we may be forced to increase our provisions for bad debts, which could adversely affect our profitability. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring portfolios. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a portion of our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our indices could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while 21 table of contents we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions also can result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to manage our operating costs as anticipated or our operating costs are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. we may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees and other costs. additionally, we may not fully realize our strategic initiatives to manage our cost structure. if operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our profitability may be reduced and our results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by global factors that are beyond our control, including macroeconomic, political and market conditions, the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, the level and volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates, inflation and ratings downgrades. near-term predictions for the growth of the global economy remain weak. concerns over the european debt crisis, the potential collapse of the euro, ratings downgrades, the ability of the u.s. government to manage the u.s. deficit and prolonged high unemployment have contributed to increased volatility and diminished expectations for the global economy and markets going forward. while we do not concentrate a significant amount of business in any one eurozone country, we did derive 31.6% of our 2012 revenue from europe. the general financial instability in any eurozone country could have a contagion effect on the region and contribute to the general instability and uncertainty in the european union. unfavorable changes in global economic conditions may negatively impact the demand for our products and services and may also impair the ability of our customers to pay for products and services or cause them to go out of business entirely, resulting in increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. cash flows may also be impacted resulting in restricted access to capital markets, changes in currency exchange rates and delayed or underpayment by our customers. adverse changes in the economy could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth, including in emerging market centers, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance 22 table of contents that, if we continue to grow internally or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions above, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, item 7 management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and item 1 business. there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where, as in the case of the ipd acquisition, the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see item 1. business company history and acquisitions. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 14.8% and 15.6% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies 23 table of contents against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 12.6% and 13.4%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2012, 58.3% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.8% were in japanese yen and 12.1% were in british pounds sterling. for the year ended december 31, 2011, 60.6% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.9% were in japanese yen and 9.9% were in british pounds sterling. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 34.5% and 34.1% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, swiss francs, euros, hong kong dollars, hungarian forints, indian rupees, and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in value of the functional currency. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $2.6 million and foreign currency exchange gains of $1.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by iss and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible that in addition to iss, other entities in our corporate family may be required to become registered as an investment adviser under the advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. 24 table of contents data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, data sales and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. proposed regulation for fiduciaries . on october 21, 2010, the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) issued a proposed regulation that would expand the definition of fiduciary under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended ( erisa ). as proposed, the definition of fiduciary would include, among others, an investment adviser that provides advice and recommendations to employee benefit plans regarding exercise of rights appurtenant to shares of stock ( e.g., proxy voting). if this regulation were adopted as proposed, iss could be deemed to be a fiduciary for purposes of erisa. as such, it would be subject to erisa prohibited transaction ( e.g., conflict) provisions, which could have an impact on the manner in which iss and its affiliates conduct business. on september 19, 2011, the dol announced that it had withdrawn this proposal and would re-propose the regulation sometime in early 2012, a target date that was not met. it is now expected that the fiduciary rule will be reopened in the first half of 2013. proposed proxy plumbing regulations . on july 14, 2010, the sec voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release focusing on a wide range of topics related to the u.s. proxy voting system. the concept release focused on three general topics: (1) the accuracy, transparency and efficiency of the proxy voting system; (2) communications with shareholders and shareholder participation in voting; and (3) the relationship between voting power and economic interest, including questions about proxy advisory firms, such as iss, and concerns raised by corporate issuers and other observers about the role, power and manner in which proxy advisory firms operate. the sec may, but is not required, to engage in rulemaking with respect to the various issues and questions raised in the concept release. in its fiscal year 2012 agency final report, the sec indicated that it plans to develop recommendations in 2013 for an interpretive release addressing issues raised in the proxy plumbing concept release regarding proxy advisory firms. potential european regulation of the proxy advisory industry. following a consultation conducted by the european securities and markets authority ( esma ) with respect to the proxy advisory industry in europe, esma has decided to encourage the proxy advisory industry to self-regulate by developing its own code of conduct. esma is recommending the development of a code of conduct that focuses on identifying, disclosing and managing conflicts of interest and that fosters transparency. esma will review the development of the code of conduct within two years of december 18, 2012 and may reconsider its position if no substantial progress has been made by that time. esma recommendation is expected to be considered by the european commission which will then decide whether or not to take further action. at this point we are unable to determine whether the sec or the european commission will pursue rulemaking or legislation on these matters and, if so, the extent to which any rule or legislation might impact our businesses, including the process by which we provide proxy research and voting services to clients, the manner in which iss operates as a proxy advisory firm, the business model that provides for both voting services to investor clients and governance advice to corporate clients, or otherwise. however, as with any regulatory change or the introduction of new legislation, we may have to change business practices and operational procedures and incur costs in response to possible modifications to the proxy system that could result from any rulemaking or legislation that stems from the sec concept release, the adoption of the code of conduct encouraged by esma or action by the european commission. potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks. on october 20, 2011, the european commission issued proposals for mifid/mifir 2 (com (2011) 0652 and com (2011) 0656), which among other things would mandate that where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark would be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues would be entitled to licenses to the benchmark as well as to relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark. access to such information would have to be granted by the benchmark owner within three months of the request on a reasonable commercial basis, which in any event 25 table of contents would be at a price no higher than the lowest price at which access to the benchmark is granted to another clearing entity, trading venue or related person for clearing and trading purposes. at this point, we do not know whether the european commission will adopt this or a similar proposal, or if it does so, when such a regulation would affect our index licensing business. on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en). these guidelines limit the types of indices that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and would require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed basis. the guidelines became effective as of february 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched ucits funds. they become effective for all ucits funds by february 17, 2014. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. although the full effects of the guidelines will be largely unknown until we have more clarification from esma and/or individual regulators, complying with any related requirements could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indices as the basis of etfs and ucits. see legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights above. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe could adopt similar concepts or regulations. on september 5, 2012, the european commission published a consultation paper on the potential regulation of indices, including regulation regarding how benchmarks are calculated, the governance and transparency of benchmarks, the use of benchmarks, the public provision of benchmarks, and transition issues. on february 8, 2013, the european commission published the summary of results of the consultation paper. although the effects of any such legislation will be largely unknown unless and until the european commission adopts any such legislation in response to this consultation paper, complying with such legislation could have a material adverse effect on our index business. on january 11, 2013, esma issued a consultation paper on principles for benchmarks-setting processes in the eu (esma/2013/12) and on january 14, 2013 the international organization of securities commissions issued a financial benchmarks consultation report. msci has responded to both consultations and will await the results of those consultations. the effects of these consultations are unknown, but complying with any principles or guidelines resulting from these consultations that lead to a material change in on our business practices or diminish intellectual property rights could have a material adverse effect on our index business. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our performance and risk products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our governance products and services support the proxy voting processes of clients. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or the failure to provide the services provided in client contracts. however, these provisions have certain exceptions and could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. on may 4, 2012, we amended and restated our existing senior secured credit facilities consisting of a senior secured term loan b facility and revolving credit facility, which were originally entered into on june 1, 2010 as amended by amendment no. 1 dated as of february 4, 2011 and amendment no. 2 dated as of march 14, 2011 (the credit facility as so amended and restated, the amended and restated credit facility ). the amended and restated credit facility provides for the incurrence of a new senior secured 5-year term loan a facility in an aggregate amount of $880.0 million and a new $100.0 million senior secured revolving facility ( new revolving credit facility ). the proceeds of the amended and restated credit facility, together with cash on hand, were used to prepay the remaining outstanding principal of the existing term loan b facility. the term loan a facility and new revolving credit facility mature on may 4, 2017. 26 table of contents as of december 31, 2012, we had $858.0 million of indebtedness under the amended and restated credit facility, as amended, ($44.0 million in current maturities and $814.0 million in long term debt), $183.3 million of cash and cash equivalents and $70.9 million in short-term investments. the amended and restated credit facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the amended and restated credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing and future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make or hold investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the amended and restated credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis until the termination of the amended and restated credit facility: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the amended and restated credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed 3.25:1.00 and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the amended and restated credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least 5.00:1.00. in addition, our amended and restated credit facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will maintain financing activities and cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. adverse conditions in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs of financing and adversely affect our ability to refinance debt maturities, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing. further, our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate for deposits of u.s. dollars ( libor ). libor tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market. we are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge our debt under the amended and restated credit facility and we have not hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period may fluctuate based on libor and other variable interest rates. to the extent these interest rates increase, our interest expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. see also the discussion of interest rate risk in part i, item 3, quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivate instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have 27 table of contents to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivate instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, the loss of a group of our key professional employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. additionally, in connection with our ipo, we issued founders grants to some of our employees, the final tranche of which vested in november 2011 and are therefore no longer effective as a retention tool. if the equity incentive compensation plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems and the internet, and any failures or disruptions may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, natural disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. we have experienced and may experience again in the future denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns of our electronic delivery systems or the internet occur, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services, may be materially and adversely affected. for example, during fiscal 2012 we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers. as a result of this migration, we experienced some unanticipated interruption and delay with respect to the performance and delivery of certain of our products. while such issues have not resulted in a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations, there is no assurance that they or future migrations will not have such effect in the future. as a result of such issues, we could be required to provide service credits, and experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also experience increased cancellations and operating expenses to defend against and protect ourselves from such disruptions and attacks, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. institutional clients of our governance business rely on iss and certain of its affiliates to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies environmental, social and governance attributes. the institutional clients of both our performance and risk and governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which the governance business provides proxy analyses and ratings or which are the subject of our financial research and analysis products and services. in some cases these institutional clients pay us a significant amount of money for our performance and risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to a corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. as a result, institutional clients, competitors and 28 table of contents other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. through our iss corporate services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. accordingly, there is potential for a perceived conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our compensation advisory services, provided to clients of the iss corporate services subsidiary. for example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation proxy items, there may be a perception that the governance business team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of services provided by iss corporate services. we have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. the conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these perceived conflicts of interest, and clients or competitors may question the integrity of our services. in the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we or our clients are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. we have established and intend to further grow our presence in mexico, the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and south america. since 2007, we have opened offices in budapest, dubai, monterrey, seoul and shanghai. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the united states and a number of those employees are located in emerging market centers. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. 29 table of contents in order to penetrate markets outside of the united states, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. for example, the continued success of ipd products is dependent on understanding local real estate markets and maintaining relationships with local real estate industry bodies in the jurisdictions in which ipd operates. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the united states. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. from time to time, we also implement changes to our global corporate structure. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. such changes include, but are not limited to, proposed legislation to reform u.s. taxation of international business activities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which iss clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. iss historical growth has been due, in large part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. to the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for iss products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. to the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,424.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2012. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. see note 9, goodwill and intangible assets, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements, included herein. the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange. for example, the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. 30 table of contents in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our common stock if equity research analysts do not publish research or reports about our business or if they issue unfavorable commentary or downgrade our common stock, the price of our common stock could decline. the trading market for our common stock relies in part on the research and reports that equity research analysts publish about us and our business. the price of our stock could decline if one or more securities analysts downgrade our stock or if those analysts issue other unfavorable commentary or cease publishing reports about us or our business. the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indices as the basis of etfs; loss of key clients (see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indices, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above); changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; additions or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or 31 table of contents results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2012, 120,114,586 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of december 31, 2012, we had issued 4,869,843 and 110,018 shares of common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of december 31, 2012, we had issued 2,620,951 shares of common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2012, we had issued 1,341,704 shares of common stock under this plan, which terminated on june 30, 2012. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the 32 table of contents shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of our company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. we do not currently intend to pay dividends on our common stock and, consequently, your ability to achieve a return on your investment will depend on appreciation in the price of our common stock. we do not currently intend to pay any cash dividends on our common stock. we currently intend to invest our future earnings, if any, to fund our growth, including growth through acquisitions, to repay our debt and to repurchase shares pursuant to our board authorized share repurchase program. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 68 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in other non-operating expense (income). revenues from index-linked investment products represented approximately 14.8% and 15.6% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are 68 table of contents invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, approximately 12.6% and 13.4%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2012, 58.3% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.8% were in japanese yen and 12.1% were in british pounds sterling. for the year ended december 31, 2011, 60.6% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.9% were in japanese yen and 9.9% were in british pounds sterling. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 34.5% and 34.1% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, swiss francs, euros, hong kong dollars, hungarian forints, indian rupees, and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in value of the functional currency. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $2.6 million and foreign currency exchange gains of $1.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively, and foreign currency exchange losses of $3.0 million for the year ended november 30, 2010. interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $183.3 million and $252.2 million at december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. these amounts were held primarily in checking and money market accounts in the countries where we maintain banking relationships. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. at december 31, 2012 and 2011, we had invested $70.9 million and $140.5 million, respectively, in debt securities with maturity dates ranging from 91 to 360 days from the date of purchase. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates related to these positions. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. borrowings under the 2012 term loan bear interest at a rate equal to the sum of libor and a margin of 2.25%, which margin will be subject to adjustment based on our leverage ratio. as of december 31, 2012, the 2012 term loan bears interest at 2.46%. assuming an average of $836.0 million of variable rate debt outstanding, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in libor for a one year period would result in approximately $8.4 million of additional interest rate expense.risk factors 19 risk factors legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. employees as of december 31, 2013, the number of our employees increased by 502 to 3,261 from 2,759 on december 31, 2012. as of december 31, 2013, 46.6% of our employees were located in emerging market centers. 18 table of contents government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec requirements. iss and msci esg research inc. are registered investment advisers and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. a subsidiary of iss in australia is also registered as an investment adviser with the australian financial services authority and must comply with its applicable requirements. msci is registered with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. available information our corporate headquarters are located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com . the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. you may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information about the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . we also make available free of charge, on or through this website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage. we also use our website ( http://ir.msci.com/ ) and corporate twitter account (@msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the email alert subscription section at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm? . the contents of our website and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements beginning on page 1 for a discussion of what types of statements are forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index, analytics and governance products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. 19 table of contents throughout our businesses, we utilize certain data provided by third party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. as of december 31, 2013, there were over 200 such data suppliers. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. many of our data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. for example, iss relies on a data feed agreement with broadridge which allows for a large number of proxy ballots to be received, and proxy votes to be processed, electronically, minimizing the manual aspects of the proxy voting process and limiting the risk of error inherent in manual processes. if the data feed agreement with broadridge was terminated, we would have to incur significant expenses in order to input our clients voting instructions directly into broadridge proprietary electronic voting systems and our business and results of operations would be materially and adversely affected. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of one or more of our significant data agreements or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the available information for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, and in our largest market, the united states. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, as competition among our clients increases, they may have to lower the fees they charge to their clients, which could cause them to decrease our fees correspondingly or otherwise lead to a reduction of our fees in certain cases. see our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, or other factors that are tied to the calculation of our fees for certain index-linked investment products below. competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide exchange traded funds ( etfs ), among other products. the fees etf providers charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these exchange traded fund managers. for example, on october 15, 2012, blackrock announced that its ishares etf business launched a new series of funds based on certain msci investable market indexes pursuant to a license with fee levels that are lower than those the company currently receives with respect to existing ishares etfs based on msci 20 table of contents standard indexes. additionally, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, in which case our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, on october 2, 2012, we announced that vanguard had informed the company of its decision to no longer use msci indexes as the basis for certain of its index funds, including both etf and other share classes, beginning in 2013, representing a loss of run rate of $24.8 million at december 31, 2012. the ability of our licensees to cease using our indexes is generally true not just with respect to an index use as the basis of an etf but also with respect to its use as the basis of other financial products, including mutual funds and institutional funds. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients etfs and institutional funds based on the same indexes, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the same index as the basis of the other type of product. our revenues and earnings attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, or other factors that are tied to the calculation of our fees for certain index-linked investment products. a decrease in our fees for these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. clients that use our indexes as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. the value of an investment product assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. in addition, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in a product provider total expense ratio ( ter ). in those cases, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for 14.4% and 14.8% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 41.1% and 43.3% of the revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, as of december 31, 2013, the month-end value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes was $332.9 billion, which was 17.3% lower than the value of such assets as of december 31, 2012, and 10.0% higher than the value of such assets at september 30, 2013. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 23.5% and 25.0% of our total revenues, respectively. if we fail to obtain a significant number of new clients or if one of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2013, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 8.8% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, 87.0% and 81.7%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock etfs based on msci indexes. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and 21 table of contents regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license our products or could impose additional costs upon us. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by iss and certain of its subsidiaries and msci esg research, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to the current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. it is possible that in addition to iss and certain of its subsidiaries and msci esg research, other entities in our corporate family may be required to become registered as an investment adviser under the advisers act or similar laws in states or foreign jurisdictions. for example, a subsidiary of iss in australia is also registered as an investment adviser with the australian financial services authority and must comply with its applicable requirements. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. we may also be adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, licensing of historical data and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could affect our ability to meet our clients needs. potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks. on september 18, 2013, the european commission issued its proposal for regulating indexes used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts and as benchmarks used to measure the performance of investment funds (com(2013) 641/3 and 2013/0314(cod)), which if adopted as proposed or with certain substantially similar provisions, could result in the regulation of many aspects of our equity and real estate index product lines, including, but not limited to, index development, calculation, dissemination, governance, maintenance and recordkeeping, as well as input data licensing, collection and dissemination. at this point, we do not know whether this proposal, or a similar proposal, will be adopted as regulation by the european union, or if it is adopted, when it will be adopted and have an effect on our equity and real estate index products. compliance with any regulation resulting from this proposal that leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer indexes in the european union, materially increases our costs of doing business, diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at reasonable cost or at all could have a material adverse effect on our index business. 22 table of contents on october 20, 2011, the european commission issued its proposal for mifid/mifir 2 (com (2011) 0652 and com (2011) 0656). agreement in principle has been reached between the european commission, parliament and council, and we expect that the regulation when adopted and implemented will among other things mandate that, where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark will be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues will be entitled to licenses to the benchmark as well as to relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark and that access to such information will have to be granted by the benchmark owner within three months of the request at a fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory rate unless there are objective reasons to charge otherwise. we still await the final text as well as the results of esma issuance of further guidance on the relevant technical standards. thus, it is difficult to predict its full effect on our index business, but complying with this regulation to the extent that it leads to a material change in our business practices or reduces our ability to offer indexes in the european union on terms of our choosing, as it appears it will, could have a material adverse effect on our index business. on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en), which are updated from time to time by esma ( guidelines ). the guidelines limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. the guidelines became effective as of february 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched ucits funds. they became effective for all ucits funds on february 17, 2014. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. although the full effects of the guidelines will be largely unknown until we have more clarification from esma and/or individual regulators, complying with any related requirements could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indexes as the basis of etfs and ucits. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe have adopted, and others could adopt, similar concepts, proposals or regulations. on june 6, 2013, esma published its final report setting out principles for benchmark-setting processes in the eu (esma/2013/659) ( esma principles ). the esma principles are intended to provide a general framework covering all stages of the benchmark setting process including data submission, administration, calculation, publication, the use of benchmarks and the continuity of benchmarks. the esma principles are non-binding, but esma intends them to help transition to a potential european union framework for benchmarks, and esma will review the esma principles application 18 months after their initial publication. we are assessing the impact that compliance with the esma principles could have on our equity and real estate index product lines, but complying with esma principles to the extent that it leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, materially increases our cost of doing business, materially diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at reasonable cost or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our index business. on july 17, 2013, the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) published its final report on principles for financial benchmarks ( iosco principles ). the iosco principles cover conflicts of interest, benchmark quality and integrity, methodology requirements, procedures related to handling complaints, documentation requirements and audit reviews. the iosco principles require benchmark administrators to publicly disclose whether they comply with the iosco principles within 12 months of their initial publication. iosco will review the extent to which the iosco principles have been implemented within 18 months of publication. we are assessing the impact that compliance with the iosco principles could have on our equity and real estate index product lines, but complying with iosco principles to the extent that it leads to a material change in our business practices or our 23 table of contents ability to offer our indexes, materially increases our cost of doing business, materially diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at reasonable cost or at all, could have a material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. proposed regulation for fiduciaries . on october 21, 2010, the u.s. department of labor ( dol ) issued a proposed regulation that would expand the definition of fiduciary under the employee retirement income security act of 1974, as amended ( erisa ). as proposed, the definition of fiduciary would include, among others, an investment adviser that provides advice and recommendations to employee benefit plans regarding exercise of rights incidental to stock ownership ( e.g., proxy voting). if this regulation were adopted as proposed, iss, for example, could be deemed to be a fiduciary for purposes of erisa. as such, it would be subject to erisa prohibited transaction ( e.g., conflict) provisions, which could have an impact on the manner in which iss and its affiliates conduct business. on september 19, 2011, the dol announced that it had withdrawn this proposal and would re-propose the regulation sometime in early 2012. although that target date and a series of later target dates have not been met, the dol reportedly is still actively working on this issue with a goal of proposing a new fiduciary rule. potential and proposed regulation of the proxy advisory industry . on july 14, 2010, the sec voted unanimously to issue for public comment a concept release focusing on a wide range of topics related to the u.s. proxy voting system. the concept release focused on three general topics: (1) the accuracy, transparency and efficiency of the proxy voting system; (2) communications with shareholders and shareholder participation in voting; and (3) the relationship between voting power and economic interest, including questions about proxy advisory firms, such as iss, and concerns raised by corporate issuers and other observers about the role, power and manner in which proxy advisory firms operate. the sec may, but is not required to, engage in rulemaking with respect to the various issues and questions raised in the concept release. in its fiscal year 2012 agency financial report, the sec indicated that it planned to develop recommendations in 2013 for an interpretive release addressing issues raised in the proxy plumbing concept release regarding proxy advisory firms; however, an interpretive release has not yet been issued. on december 5, 2013, the sec held a public roundtable to discuss the proxy advisory industry. see any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business below. following a consultation conducted by the european securities and markets authority ( esma ) with respect to the proxy advisory industry in europe, esma has decided to require the proxy advisory industry to develop its own code of conduct, which will be implemented under a comply-or-explain regime. esma is recommending the development of a code of conduct that focuses on identifying, disclosing and managing conflicts of interest and that fosters transparency. esma will review the development of the code of conduct during 2016 and may reconsider its position if no substantial progress has been made by that time. to address esma recommendations, six proxy advisors are currently working on a set of best practice principles, which are expected to be released in march 2014. on december 12, 2012, the european commission also released an action plan that contemplated considering an initiative with a view to improving the transparency and conflicts of interest frameworks applicable to proxy advisors. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe, such as canada, have adopted, and others could adopt, similar concepts, proposals or regulations. at this point we are unable to determine whether the sec, the european commission or other regulatory bodies will pursue rulemaking or legislation on these matters and, if so, the extent to which any rule or legislation might impact our businesses, including the process by which we provide proxy research and voting services to clients, the manner in which iss operates as a proxy advisory firm, the business model that provides for both voting services to investor clients and governance advice to corporate clients, or otherwise. however, as with any regulatory change or the introduction of new 24 table of contents legislation, we may have to change business practices and operational procedures and incur costs in response to possible modifications to the proxy system that could result from any rulemaking or legislation that stems from the sec concept release, the adoption of the code of conduct encouraged by esma or action by the european commission or other regulatory bodies. our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and maintain profitability. our growth, including in emerging market locations, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow organically or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all of our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways and we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise below, part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and part i, item 1. business company history. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, in august 2011, blackrock announced that it was seeking regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect the confidentiality of client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation could damage our reputation and/or result in claims against us by our clients or regulators and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, on september 14, 2012, we received a wells notice from the staff of the sec in connection with allegations that an iss employee provided confidential information about how clients voted their 25 table of contents proxies to proxy solicitors in return for cash and other gifts. the employee was subsequently terminated from his position, and we cooperated with investigations of both the sec and the u.s. department of justice. in settling with the sec, and without admitting or denying the sec allegations, iss consented to the entry of an administrative order requiring that iss comply with relevant provisions of the securities laws, pay a $300,000 civil monetary penalty, and retain an independent consultant to conduct a review of iss supervisory and compliance policies and procedures. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indexes from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our indexes can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indexes. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have confidentiality policies in place and have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail or we are delayed in implementing such procedures as necessary with respect to a newly acquired business and an employee inadvertently discloses, or deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indexes, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our confidentiality policies or information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list etfs or other financial products based on our equity indexes only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our equity indexes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, 26 table of contents the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci , barra , fea , investorforce , ipd and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 21 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have five u.s. and foreign patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license and other agreements non-disclosure obligations and the remedies available to us in the event of a breach vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under online licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. see we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below for risks associated with the use of intellectual property obtained from third parties. third-party litigation there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the u.s. and germany, in the last few years regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on a publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including 27 table of contents the governing law, the amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results of these cases are favorable to the index owner, as in a recent case in the illinois state courts involving the international securities exchange and its proposed use of the dow jones industrial average and the s&amp;p 500 index. in other instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner, as in a 2009 case in german federal court ruling that the owner of an index trademark who publishes the index in a manner generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in options issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and its use does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of integral technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have increasingly pursued or may consider pursuing patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model, software application or other relevant product or process, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. therefore, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re- 28 table of contents engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third party software and data has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased software or data acquisition costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new products and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product, we might have to delay the product release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we might not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors. errors may occur in our products that could have a material adverse effect on our business and could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third-party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations, or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy errors. furthermore, our clients may use our products together with their own software, data or products from other companies. as a result, when problems occur, it might be difficult to identify the source of the problem. even when our products do not cause these problems, the existence of these errors might cause us to incur significant costs, divert the attention of our technical personnel from our product development efforts, impact our reputation, cause significant client relations problems or result in legal claims against us. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of the industry in which we operate and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, 29 table of contents including through integration, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. if, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated, if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, or if competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are better than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. for example, we have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and platforms and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also presents execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. also see if our products fail to perform properly due to undetected errors or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. there may also be consolidation among our competitors in the form of joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for better capitalized competitors. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many cases, including for single-purpose product companies. the internet as a distribution channel has allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. profit margin considerations, including those arising from financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients resulting from current economic conditions, may lead certain clients to seek products at a lower cost than what we provide. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks above. these competitive pressures may also result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, resulting in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see our clients that pay us a fee based on assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above and part i, item 1. business our competition. 30 table of contents our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities. if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring portfolios. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a portion of our business is dependent on our clients continuing to measure the performance of their equity investments against equity benchmarks. if our clients discontinue use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our equity indexes could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions can also result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks above. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development and marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions above and part i, item 1. business. any failure to continue to grow our business and maintain profitability could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 31 table of contents if we are unable to manage our operating costs as anticipated or our operating costs are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. we may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs. if operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be adversely affected. our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted by certain factors that are beyond our control, including global financial market conditions, the availability of short-term and long-term funding and capital, the level and volatility of interest rates, currency exchange rates and inflation. unfavorable changes in global financial market conditions may negatively impact the financial viability of our clients, the majority of which are in the financial services industry, resulting in reduced demand for our products and services due to the closure or consolidation of our clients, the inability of our customers to pay for products or services, prolonged selling and renewal cycles and increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. our cash flows may also be impacted by changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, inflation and delayed payment or underpayment by our customers, which could restrict our access to capital markets. adverse changes in the financial markets could affect earnings negatively and could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. additionally, as a result of the global financial crisis, the u.s. congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank act. the dodd-frank act could have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and has and will continue to impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. although many of the effects of the dodd-frank act will be largely unknown until all of the regulations have been finalized and implemented, complying with its requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. there is considerable risk embedded in growth through acquisitions, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where, as in the case of the ipd acquisition, the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and which may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; 32 table of contents diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see part i, item 1. business company history. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index-linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the u.s. where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in non-operating other expense (income), net in our consolidated statement of income. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 14.4% and 14.8% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, 15.1% and 12.6%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2013, 53.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 22.9% were in british pounds sterling and 13.0% were in japanese yen. for the year ended december 31, 2012, 58.3% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.8% were in japanese yen and 12.1% were in british pounds sterling. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 42.8% and 34.5% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, euros, swiss francs, indian rupees, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in 33 table of contents value of the functional currency. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $2.4 million and $2.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products by our clients. our performance and risk products support the investment processes of our clients, which, in the aggregate, manage trillions of dollars of assets. our governance products and services support the proxy voting processes of our clients. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or the failure to provide the services provided in client contracts. however, these provisions may not always eliminate liability entirely and may have certain exceptions that could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts. any such claim, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation. in addition, such claims and lawsuits could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. on may 4, 2012, we amended and restated our credit facility, which originally consisted of a senior secured term loan b facility and revolving credit facility, entered into on june 1, 2010 as amended by amendment no. 1 dated as of february 4, 2011 and amendment no. 2 dated as of march 14, 2011 (the credit facility as so amended and restated, the amended and restated credit facility ). the amended and restated credit facility provides for the incurrence of a new senior secured 5-year term loan a facility in an aggregate amount of $880.0 million ( term loan ) and a new $100.0 million senior secured revolving facility ( revolving credit facility ). the proceeds of the amended and restated credit facility, together with cash on hand, were used to prepay the remaining outstanding principal of the existing term loan b facility. on december 12, 2013 we entered into amendment no. 1 to the amended and restated credit facility (the new amended and restated credit facility ) that, among other things, extended the maturity dates of the term loan and revolving credit facility to december 12, 2018 and modified the amortization schedule. see part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for additional information regarding amendment no.1. as of december 31, 2013, we had $810.0 million of indebtedness under the new amended and restated credit facility, as amended ($20.3 million in current maturities and $789.7 million in long term debt), $358.4 million of cash and cash equivalents and no short-term investments. the new amended and restated credit facility is guaranteed on a senior secured basis by each of our direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries and secured by a valid and perfected first priority lien 34 table of contents and security interest in substantially all of the shares of the capital stock of our present and future material domestic subsidiaries and up to 65% of the shares of capital stock of our foreign subsidiaries, substantially all of our and our material domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets and the proceeds thereof. in addition, the new amended and restated credit facility contains restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing and future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. the new amended and restated credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve specified financial and operating results and maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis until the termination of the new amended and restated credit facility: (1) the maximum total leverage ratio (as defined in the new amended and restated credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed 3.25:1.00 and (2) the minimum interest coverage ratio (as defined in the new amended and restated credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least 5.00:1.00. in addition, our new amended and restated credit facility contains the following affirmative covenants, among others: periodic delivery of financial statements, budgets and officer certificates; payment of other obligations; compliance with laws and regulations; payment of taxes and other material obligations; maintenance of property and insurance; performance of material leases; right of the lenders to inspect property, books and records; notices of defaults and other material events; and maintenance of books and records. we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. our level of indebtedness could increase our vulnerability to general economic consequences; require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flow and proceeds of any additional equity issuances to payments of our indebtedness; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and the markets in which we operate; place us at a competitive disadvantage to our competitors that have less debt; limit our ability to borrow money or sell stock to fund our working capital and capital expenditures; limit our ability to consummate acquisitions; and increase our interest expense. furthermore, we cannot assure you that we will maintain financing activities and cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of financing and fluctuations in interest rates could adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. adverse conditions in the domestic and global financial markets may increase our costs of financing and adversely affect our ability to refinance debt maturities, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. any downgrades to our credit rating may likewise increase the cost and reduce the availability of financing. further, our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) for deposits of u.s. dollars. libor tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market. we are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge our debt under the new amended and restated credit facility and, while we may do so in the future, we have not currently hedged our interest rate exposure and, accordingly, our interest expense for any particular period for unhedged debt may fluctuate based on libor and other variable interest rates. to the extent these interest rates increase, our interest 35 table of contents expense will increase, in which event we may have difficulties making interest payments and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be adversely affected. see also the discussion of interest rate risk in part ii, item 7a. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivative instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee our management and employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. if the equity incentive compensation plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems, the internet and our information technology platform, and any failures, disruptions or instability may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, natural disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. we have experienced and may experience again in the future denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our electronic delivery systems, the internet or our information technology platform, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services, may be materially and adversely affected. for example, during fiscal 2012 we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers. as a result of this migration, we experienced some unanticipated interruption and delay with respect to the performance and delivery of certain of our products. while such issues have not resulted in a material adverse effect on our business or results of 36 table of contents operations, there is no assurance that they or future migrations will not have such effect in the future. as a result of such issues, we could be required to provide service credits, and experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also incur increased operating expenses to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. institutional clients of our governance business rely on iss and certain of its affiliates to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies environmental, social and governance attributes. the institutional clients of both our performance and risk and governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which the governance business provides proxy analyses and ratings. in some cases these institutional clients may be the subject of the governance business proxy analyses and ratings or pay us a significant amount of money for our performance and risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to an institutional client or corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. as a result, institutional clients, competitors and other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. through our iss corporate services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. accordingly, there is potential for a perceived conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our compensation advisory services, provided to clients of the iss corporate services subsidiary. for example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation proxy items, there may be a perception that the governance business team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of services provided by iss corporate services. we have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. the conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these perceived conflicts of interest, and clients, regulators or competitors may question the integrity of our services. for example, on june 5, 2013, the capital markets and government sponsored enterprise subcommittee of the committee on financial services of the u.s. house of representatives held a hearing entitled examining the market power and impact of proxy advisory firms. additionally, the sec hosted a round-table discussion on december 5, 2013 that examined the influence of proxy advisers, potential conflicts of interest, and the transparency and accuracy of their recommendations. while no formal recommendations were made at this meeting, the sec continues to consider whether proxy advisory firms should be regulated. in the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage or become subject to additional regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where 37 table of contents we or our clients are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in connection with the acquisitions of riskmetrics and ipd, we acquired new offices in 10 non-u.s. locations. since 2010, we have also opened offices in santiago, seoul, taipei and shanghai. we intend to further grow our presence in mexico, the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and south america. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the united states and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the united states, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. for example, the continued success of ipd products is dependent on understanding local real estate markets and maintaining relationships with local real estate industry bodies in the jurisdictions in which ipd operates. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the united states. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. 38 table of contents we may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. from time to time, we also implement changes to our global corporate structure. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. such changes include, but are not limited to, proposed legislation to reform u.s. taxation of international business activities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which iss clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. iss historical growth has been due, in part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. to the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for iss products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. to the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. 39 table of contents our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,394.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2013. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. on october 31, 2013, we announced that we had engaged morgan stanley to explore strategic alternatives for the governance business, including the potential divestiture or other separation of the entire business. there can be no assurance that the process of exploring these strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or that any transaction will ultimately be consummated. in addition, an adverse outcome from the pursuit of the strategic alternatives could lead to potential future impairment charges. see note 9, goodwill and intangible assets, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange. for example, the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indexes as the basis of etfs; loss of key clients (see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above); 40 table of contents changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; changes in or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plans. as of december 31, 2013, 118,083,111 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of december 31, 2013, we had issued 5,666,537 and 133,309 shares of common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive 41 table of contents plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of december 31, 2013, we had issued 3,323,035 shares of common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2013, we had issued 1,754,690 shares of common stock under this plan, which terminated on june 30, 2012. see note 11, share based compensation deferred stock awards and stock option awards of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of the company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. if we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivative instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee our management and employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting or retaining such personnel. if the equity incentive compensation plans that we currently have in place do not adequately compensate our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract and retain the necessary qualified personnel our products may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems, the internet and our information technology platform, and any failures, disruptions or instability may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, natural disasters, power loss or computer viruses could cause our systems to operate slowly or interrupt their availability for periods of time. we have experienced and may experience again in the future denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our electronic delivery systems, the internet or our information technology platform, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services, may be materially and adversely affected. for example, during fiscal 2012 we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers. as a result of this migration, we experienced some unanticipated interruption and delay with respect to the performance and delivery of certain of our products. while such issues have not resulted in a material adverse effect on our business or results of 36 table of contents operations, there is no assurance that they or future migrations will not have such effect in the future. as a result of such issues, we could be required to provide service credits, and experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also incur increased operating expenses to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any perceived conflicts of interest resulting from providing products and services to institutional investors in addition to proxy voting recommendations, or providing products and services to corporations which are the subject of our proxy recommendations or other products and services could harm our reputation and business. institutional clients of our governance business rely on iss and certain of its affiliates to provide them with informed proxy vote recommendations, benchmark proxy voting guidelines and unbiased analyses of companies environmental, social and governance attributes. the institutional clients of both our performance and risk and governance businesses, particularly hedge funds and more active institutional investors, may have material economic and other interests in the corporations on which the governance business provides proxy analyses and ratings. in some cases these institutional clients may be the subject of the governance business proxy analyses and ratings or pay us a significant amount of money for our performance and risk products and services and, accordingly, there may be a perception that we might advocate a particular position or provide research that supports a particular conclusion with respect to an institutional client or corporation in order to satisfy the unique economic or other interests of a particular institutional client. as a result, institutional clients, competitors and other market participants could raise questions about our ability to provide unbiased services, which could harm our reputation. through our iss corporate services subsidiary, we provide products and services to corporate clients who use these services to learn about and improve their corporate governance practices. accordingly, there is potential for a perceived conflict of interest between the services we provide to institutional clients and the services, including our compensation advisory services, provided to clients of the iss corporate services subsidiary. for example, when we provide corporate governance services to a corporate client and at the same time provide proxy vote recommendations to institutional clients regarding that corporation proxy items, there may be a perception that the governance business team providing research to our institutional clients may treat that corporation more favorably due to its use of services provided by iss corporate services. we have implemented an information barrier and other procedures designed to prevent any potential conflict of interest from impacting the ability of our research team to provide unbiased analyses. the conflict management safeguards that we have implemented may not be adequate to manage these perceived conflicts of interest, and clients, regulators or competitors may question the integrity of our services. for example, on june 5, 2013, the capital markets and government sponsored enterprise subcommittee of the committee on financial services of the u.s. house of representatives held a hearing entitled examining the market power and impact of proxy advisory firms. additionally, the sec hosted a round-table discussion on december 5, 2013 that examined the influence of proxy advisers, potential conflicts of interest, and the transparency and accuracy of their recommendations. while no formal recommendations were made at this meeting, the sec continues to consider whether proxy advisory firms should be regulated. in the event that we fail to adequately manage perceived conflicts of interest, we could incur reputational damage or become subject to additional regulation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to protect our equipment and the information stored in our databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where 37 table of contents we or our clients are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible office facilities for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there is no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. in connection with the acquisitions of riskmetrics and ipd, we acquired new offices in 10 non-u.s. locations. since 2010, we have also opened offices in santiago, seoul, taipei and shanghai. we intend to further grow our presence in mexico, the middle east, asia, africa, eastern europe and south america. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the united states and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the united states, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. for example, the continued success of ipd products is dependent on understanding local real estate markets and maintaining relationships with local real estate industry bodies in the jurisdictions in which ipd operates. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and corporate governance and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the united states. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. 38 table of contents we may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ). we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. from time to time, we also implement changes to our global corporate structure. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. such changes include, but are not limited to, proposed legislation to reform u.s. taxation of international business activities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. changes in the legislative, regulatory and corporate environments in which iss clients operate may adversely impact our financial results. iss historical growth has been due, in part, to increased regulatory requirements, highly visible corporate scandals, increased shareholder activism and corporate chief executive officers and boards of directors that are increasingly concerned about, and responsive to, shareholder concerns. to the extent that any of these trends change, the demand for iss products and services could be reduced, and this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation. to the extent these regulations change or are not extended to other markets, our business, financial condition and results of operation could be materially adversely affected. 39 table of contents our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $2,394.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2013. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could be material to our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. on october 31, 2013, we announced that we had engaged morgan stanley to explore strategic alternatives for the governance business, including the potential divestiture or other separation of the entire business. there can be no assurance that the process of exploring these strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or that any transaction will ultimately be consummated. in addition, an adverse outcome from the pursuit of the strategic alternatives could lead to potential future impairment charges. see note 9, goodwill and intangible assets, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange. for example, the exchange act requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 (the sarbanes-oxley act ) requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. see changes in government regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indexes as the basis of etfs; loss of key clients (see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above); 40 table of contents changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; changes in or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plans. as of december 31, 2013, 118,083,111 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of december 31, 2013, we had issued 5,666,537 and 133,309 shares of common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive 41 table of contents plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of december 31, 2013, we had issued 3,323,035 shares of common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2013, we had issued 1,754,690 shares of common stock under this plan, which terminated on june 30, 2012. see note 11, share based compensation deferred stock awards and stock option awards of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of the company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. item 1b. unresolved staff comments nothing required to be disclosed. 42 table of contents item 2. properties our corporate headquarters is located in new york, new york. this is also our largest sales office and one of our main research centers. as of december 31, 2013, our principal offices consisted of the following leased properties: location square feet number of offices expiration date mumbai, india 182,081 2 december 7, 2017 and september 30, 2018 new york, new york 125,811 1 february 28, 2033 rockville, maryland 51,090 1 december 31, 2023 london, england 40,935 1 february 28, 2022 berkeley, california 34,178 1 february 29, 2020 manila, philippines 29,960 1 march 31, 2019 monterrey, mexico 28,933 1 december 31, 2020 budapest, hungary 25,467 1 february 28, 2014 norman, oklahoma 23,664 1 may 31, 2014 conshohocken, pennsylvania 15,590 1 june 30, 2019 boston, massachusetts 13,506 1 november 30, 2021 geneva, switzerland 11,883 1 march 31, 2019 brussels, belgium 11,180 1 june 30, 2014 beijing, china 10,757 1 december 31, 2016 as of december 31, 2013, we also leased and occupied sales and client support offices in the following locations: hong kong, china; chicago, illinois; tokyo, japan; frankfurt, germany; paris, france; san francisco, california; sydney, australia; ann arbor, michigan; toronto, canada; shanghai, china; singapore; almere, netherlands; cape town, south africa; milan, italy; stockholm, sweden; sao paolo, brazil; seoul, korea; dubai, united arab emirates; and taipei, taiwan. the majority of our properties are used in support of both our performance and risk and our governance operating segments. we believe that our properties are in good operating condition and adequately serve our current business operations. we also anticipate that suitable additional or alternative space, including those under lease options, will be available at commercially reasonable terms for future expansion. item 3. legal proceedings various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or asserted against the company in the ordinary course of business. while the amounts claimed could be substantial, the ultimate liability cannot now be determined because of the considerable uncertainties that exist. therefore, it is possible that msci business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows in a particular period could be materially affected by certain contingencies. however, based on facts currently available, management believes that the disposition of matters that are currently pending or asserted will not, individually or in the aggregate, have a material effect on msci business, operating results, financial condition or cash flows. item 4. mine safety disclosures not applicable. 43 table of contents part ii i tem 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity securities stock price and dividends our common stock has traded on the new york stock exchange since november 15, 2007 and trades under the symbol msci. as of february 21, 2014, there were 153 shareholders of record of our common stock. the following table sets forth the high and low closing sales prices per share of our common stock from january 1, 2012 through december 31, 2013. years ended high low december 31, 2013 first quarter $ 34.67 $ 31.79 second quarter 35.73 32.34 third quarter 41.01 33.72 fourth quarter 44.71 38.31 december 31, 2012 first quarter $ 37.81 $ 31.89 second quarter 37.74 31.60 third quarter 36.73 32.23 fourth quarter 35.82 25.59 on february 21, 2014, the closing price of our common stock on the new york stock exchange was $44.53. dividend policy we currently do not pay any dividends and retain all available funds for use in the operation and expansion of our business, including growth through acquisitions, the repayment of our debt and the repurchases of our common stock. the payment of any future dividends will be determined by the board of directors in light of conditions then existing, including our earnings, financial condition and capital requirements, business conditions, corporate law requirements and other factors. in addition, our new amended and restated credit facility contains restrictions on the payment of dividends. see part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources. the transfer agent and registrar for our common stock is broadridge corporate issuer solutions, inc. equity compensation plans on november 2, 2007 and november 5, 2007, our shareholders and board of directors approved, respectively, the implementation of the msci independent directors equity compensation plan (as amended and restated on january 12, 2011, the idecp ). under the idecp, the directors that are not employees of the company receive annual board retainer fees and fees for serving on the company committees, if applicable, and pursuant to the terms of the idecp, a director may make an election to receive all or any portion of such director retainer and committee fees in shares of our common stock. directors who are not employees of the company are entitled to receive an annual grant of $90,000 each in stock units and the lead director is entitled to an additional $25,000 in stock units, which are subject to a vesting schedule. the total number of shares authorized to be awarded under the plan is 500,000. on november 2, 2007 and november 5, 2007, our shareholders and board of directors approved, respectively, the implementation of the msci 2007 equity incentive compensation plan. on april 8, 2008, our shareholders approved the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan (as further 44 table of contents amended, the msci eicp ). the msci eicp permits the compensation committee to make grants of a variety of equity based awards (such as stock, restricted stock, stock units and options) totaling up to 12.5 million shares to eligible recipients, including employees and consultants. no awards under this plan are permitted after november 2, 2017. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan which terminated on june 30, 2012. as of december 31, 2013, there were no securities to be issued upon the vesting or exercise of equity awards granted under the institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan. the following table sets forth certain information with respect to our equity compensation plans at december 31, 2013: number of securities to be issued upon vesting of restricted stock units and exercise of outstanding options a weighted average unit award value of restricted stock units and weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options b number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) c equity compensation plans approved by security holders msci independent directors equity compensation plan (1) 25,626 $ 34.02 346,177 msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan 2,423,781 $ 28.09 6,312,464 riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan 12,705 $ 3.31 riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan 222,067 $ 15.57 riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan 545,612 $ 23.84 total 3,229,791 $ 26.46 6,658,641 (1) the msci independent directors equity compensation plan does not authorize the issuance of options to purchase msci common stock. stock repurchases on december 13, 2012, the board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $300.0 million worth of shares of msci common stock beginning immediately and continuing through december 31, 2014 (the 2012 repurchase program ). on december 13, 2012, as part of the 2012 repurchase program, we entered into an accelerated share repurchase ( asr ) agreement with a financial institution to initiate a repurchase aggregating $100.0 million (the december 2012 asr program ). as a result of the december 2012 asr program, we received 2.2 million shares on december 14, 2012 and 0.8 million shares on july 31, 2013 for a combined average purchase price of $33.47 per share. 45 table of contents on august 1, 2013, we entered into a second asr agreement to initiate share repurchases aggregating $100.0 million (the august 2013 asr program ). as a result of the august 2013 asr program, we received 1.9 million shares on august 2, 2013 and 0.5 million shares on december 30, 2013 for a combined average purchase price of $41.06 per share. on february 4, 2014, the board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $300.0 million worth of shares of msci common stock which will be available from time to time at management discretion (the 2014 repurchase program ). on february 6, 2014, as part of the 2012 repurchase program, we entered into a new asr agreement to initiate share repurchases aggregating $100.0 million (the february 2014 asr program ). the february 2014 asr program is structured as a capped asr in which, on february 7, 2014, we paid $100.0 million and received 1.7 million shares, representing the minimum number of common shares to be repurchased based on a calculation using a specific capped price per share. this price is capped such that only under limited circumstances may we be required to deliver shares or pay cash at settlement. we anticipate that all repurchases under the february 2014 asr program will be completed no later than the final repurchase date in may 2014, although settlement may be accelerated under certain circumstances. additionally, depending on the average share price through the completion date in may 2014, we may receive additional shares under the february 2014 asr program. the 2014 repurchase program, except for the asr agreement, may be modified, suspended or terminated by the company in its discretion at any time without prior notice. the following table provides information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of the company of its common stock during the quarter ended december 31, 2013. there were no other share repurchases during the quarter outside of the repurchases noted below. issuer purchases of equity securities period total number of shares purchased (1) average price paid per share total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs approximate dollar value of shares that may yet be purchased under the plans or programs (2) month #1 (october 1, 2013-october 31, 2013) 1,513 $ 41.37 $ 100,000,000 month #2 (november 1, 2013-november 30, 2013) 2,770 $ 42.88 $ 100,000,000 month #3 (december 1, 2013-december 31, 2013) 566,295 $ 41.26 518,524 $ 100,000,000 total 570,578 $ 41.27 518,524 $ 100,000,000 (1) includes (i) shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on behalf of employees that occur upon vesting and delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock units and (ii) shares repurchased pursuant to the 2012 share repurchase program. the value of the shares withheld were determined using the fair market value of the company common stock on the date of withholding, using a valuation methodology established by the company. (2) see note 6, commitments and contingencies of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein for further information regarding our stock repurchase program. recent sales of unregistered securities. none. 46 table of contents use of proceeds from sale of registered securities none. five-year stock performance graph the following graph compares the cumulative total shareholders return on our common stock, the standard &amp; poor 500 stock index and the nyse composite index since november 30, 2008 assuming an investment of $100 at the closing price on november 30, 2008. in calculating total annual shareholders return, reinvestment of dividends, if any, is assumed. the indexes are included for comparative purposes only. they do not necessarily reflect management opinion that such indexes are an appropriate measure of the relative performance of the common stock. this graph is not soliciting material, is not deemed filed with the sec and is not to be incorporated by reference in any of our filings under the securities act of 1933, as amended, or the exchange act, as amended, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing. total investment value for the years ended december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 november 30, 2010 november 30, 2009 msci inc. $ 283 $ 201 $ 213 $ 221 $ 197 s&amp;p 500 $ 205 $ 159 $ 140 $ 132 $ 122 nyse composite index $ 185 $ 151 $ 134 $ 133 $ 127 item 6. selected consolidated financial data our selected consolidated financial data for the periods presented should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto beginning on page f-1 of this annual report on form 10-k. 47 table of contents the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 and the selected consolidated financial condition data as of december 31, 2013 and 2012 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements beginning on page f-1 of this annual report on form 10-k. our consolidated financial statements for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 have been audited and reported upon by an independent registered public accounting firm. the selected consolidated statement of income data for the years ended november 30, 2010 and 2009 and the selected consolidated statement of financial condition data as of december 31, 2010 and november 30, 2010, and 2009 are derived from our audited consolidated financial statements not included in this annual report on form 10-k. the selected financial information presented below may not be indicative of our future performance and does not necessarily reflect what our financial position and results of operations would have been had we operated as a stand-alone company during the periods presented prior to our separation from morgan stanley on may 22, 2009. as of or for the years ended one month ended december 31, 2013 (1) december 31, 2012 (2) december 31, 2011 november 30, 2010 (3) november 30, 2009 december 31, 2010 (in thousands, except operating margin and per share data) operating revenues $ 1,035,667 $ 950,141 $ 900,941 $ 662,901 $ 442,948 $ 72,524 total operating expenses 664,161 603,205 578,943 456,778 291,956 45,855 operating income 371,506 346,936 321,998 206,123 150,992 26,669 other expense (income), net 25,885 57,527 58,585 52,632 19,271 6,113 provision for income taxes 123,064 105,171 89,959 61,321 49,920 6,732 net income $ 222,557 $ 184,238 $ 173,454 $ 92,170 $ 81,801 $ 13,824 operating margin 35.9 % 36.5 % 35.7 % 31.1 % 34.1 % 36.8 % earnings per basic common share $ 1.85 $ 1.50 $ 1.43 $ 0.82 $ 0.80 $ 0.11 earnings per diluted common share $ 1.83 $ 1.48 $ 1.41 $ 0.81 $ 0.80 $ 0.11 weighted average shares outstanding used in computing earnings per share basic 120,100 122,023 120,717 112,074 100,607 119,943 diluted 121,074 123,204 122,276 113,357 100,860 121,803 cash and cash equivalents $ 358,434 $ 183,309 $ 252,211 $ 226,575 $ 176,024 $ 269,423 short-term investments $ $ 70,898 $ 140,490 $ 73,891 $ 295,304 $ 72,817 accounts receivable (net of allowances) $ 169,490 $ 153,557 $ 180,566 $ 147,662 $ 77,180 $ 137,988 goodwill and intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization $ 2,394,528 $ 2,424,484 $ 2,353,466 $ 2,422,921 $ 561,812 $ 2,417,357 total assets $ 3,134,537 $ 3,019,639 $ 3,092,996 $ 3,023,166 $ 1,200,269 $ 3,057,481 deferred revenue $ 319,735 $ 308,022 $ 289,217 $ 271,300 $ 152,944 $ 268,807 current maturities of long-term debt $ 19,772 $ 43,093 $ 10,339 $ 54,916 $ 42,088 $ 54,932 long-term debt, net of current maturities $ 788,010 $ 811,623 $ 1,066,548 $ 1,207,881 $ 337,622 $ 1,207,966 total shareholders equity $ 1,576,364 $ 1,425,231 $ 1,305,432 $ 1,080,117 $ 507,056 $ 1,102,170 (1) includes the results of investorforce from the january 29, 2013 acquisition date. (2) includes the results of ipd from the november 30, 2012 acquisition date. (3) includes the results of riskmetrics and measurisk from the june 1, 2010 and july 30, 2010 acquisition dates, respectively. 48 table of contents item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations the following discussion and analysis of the financial condition and results of our operations should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report on form 10-k. this discussion contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. our actual results could differ materially from those discussed below. such risk and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, those identified below and those discussed in part i, item 1a. risk factors, within this annual report on form 10-k. overview we are a leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including indexes, portfolio risk and performance analytics and corporate governance products and services. our products and services address multiple markets, asset classes and geographies and are sold to a diverse client base, including asset owners such as pension funds, endowments, foundations, central banks, family offices and insurance companies; institutional and retail asset managers, such as managers of pension assets, mutual funds, exchange traded funds ( etfs ), real estate, hedge funds and private wealth; financial intermediaries such as banks, broker-dealers, exchanges, custodians and investment consultants; and corporate clients. as of december 31, 2013, we had offices in 34 cities in 22 countries to help serve our diverse client base, with 52.6% of our revenue from clients in the americas, 35.5% in europe, the middle east and africa ( emea ) and 11.9% in asia and australia, based on revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013. our principal sales model in both of our business segments is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products and services for use at specified locations, often by a given number of users or for a certain volume of services, for an annual fee paid up-front. additionally, our recurring subscriptions are increasingly related to our managed services offering whereby we oversee the production of risk and performance reports on behalf of our clients. fees attributable to annual, recurring subscriptions are recorded as deferred revenues on our consolidated statement of financial condition and are recognized on our consolidated statement of income as the service is rendered. additionally, a portion of our revenues come from clients who use our indexes as the basis for index-linked investment products such as etfs or as the basis for passively managed funds and separate accounts. these clients commonly pay us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on the investment product assets. we generate a limited amount of our revenues from certain exchanges that use our indexes as the basis for futures and options contracts and pay us a license fee for the use of our intellectual property based on their volume of trades. we generate revenues from subscription agreements for the receipt of periodic benchmarks reports, digests, and other publications, which are most often associated with our products offered by ipd group limited ( ipd ), that are recognized upon delivery of such reports or data updates. we also receive revenues from one-time fees related to implementation, historical or customized reports, advisory and consulting services, overages relating to proxy research and voting services, licenses of historical data sales, fees relating to recovery of securities class action settlements and from certain products and services that are designed for one-time usage. in evaluating our financial performance, we focus on revenue growth for the company in total and by product category as well as operating profit growth. in addition, we focus on operating metrics, including run rates and retention rates, to manage the business. our business is not highly capital intensive and, as such, we expect to continue to convert a high percentage of our operating profits into excess cash in the future. our revenue growth strategy includes: (a) expanding and deepening our relationships with investment institutions worldwide; (b) developing new and enhancing existing product offerings, including combining existing product features or data derived from our products to create new products; and (c) actively seeking to acquire products, technologies and companies that will enhance, complement or expand our client base and our product offerings. to maintain and accelerate our revenue and operating income growth, we expect to continue to invest in and expand our operating functions and infrastructure, including additional product management, sales and client support staff and facilities in locations around the world and additional staff and supporting technology for our 49 table of contents research and our data operations and technology functions. at the same time, managing and controlling our operating expenses is very important to us and a distinct part of our culture. the goal of these investments is to maximize our medium-term revenue and operating income growth, while at the same time ensuring that msci will remain a leading provider of investment decision support tools well into the future. as a result, the rate of growth of our investments may from time to time exceed that of our revenues, which would slow the growth of, or even reduce, our operating profit. for example, for the year ended december 31, 2013, our revenues grew by 9.0% but our operating income only grew by 7.1% compared to the year ended december 31, 2012 due, in part, to increased investment in the business. we anticipate that our increases in spending in areas such as sales, client service, information technology and product development in the year ending december 31, 2014 will continue to exceed the rate of growth of our revenues and will again slow the growth of our operating profit. however, we believe these investments will result in higher revenue and operating profit growth over the medium-term. operating segments we operate as two segments: the performance and risk business and the governance business. see note 14, segment information of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein for further information about msci operating segments. our performance and risk business is a leading global provider of investment decision support tools, including equity indexes, real estate indexes and benchmarks, portfolio risk and performance analytics, credit analytics and environmental, social and governance ( esg ) products. our performance and risk products are used in many areas of the investment process, including portfolio construction and rebalancing, performance benchmarking and attribution, risk management, regulatory and client reporting, index-linked investment product creation, asset allocation, the assessment of corporate management of esg risks and opportunities, investment manager selection and investment research. the flagship products within our performance and risk business are our global equity indexes and esg products marketed under the msci and msci esg research brands, our real estate indexes and analytics marketed under the ipd brand, our market and credit risk analytics marketed under the riskmetrics and barra brands, our performance reporting products and services offered to the investment consultant community marketed under the investorforce brand, our portfolio risk and performance analytics marketed under the barra brand and our valuation models and risk management software for the energy and commodities markets marketed under the fea brand. our governance business is a leading provider of corporate governance products and services to institutional investors and corporations around the world. among other things, the governance business facilitates the voting of proxies by institutional investors and provides in-depth research and analysis to help inform voting decisions and identify issuer-specific risk. the governance business offers both global equity security coverage and fully integrated products and services, including proxy voting; policy creation, application and management; research; vote recommendations; vote execution; post-vote disclosure and reporting; and data and analytical tools. it also provides securities class action monitoring and claims filing services to aid institutional investors in the recovery of funds from securities class action settlements. within a firewall designed to separate it from the rest of the governance business, iss corporate services also provides products and services to corporate clients who may use those products and services to learn about and improve their governance and executive compensation practices. the flagship products within our governance business are our governance research, our outsourced proxy voting and reporting services and our executive compensation analytics tools marketed under the iss brand. on march 31, 2013, we sold our cfra product line, which offered clients specialized financial research and analysis services. on october 31, 2013, we announced that we had engaged morgan stanley to explore strategic alternatives for the governance business, including the potential divestiture or other separation of the entire business. there can be no assurance that the process of exploring these strategic alternatives will result in a transaction or that any transaction will ultimately be consummated. in addition, an adverse outcome from the pursuit of the strategic alternatives could lead to potential future impairment charges. 50 table of contents the performance and risk business is comprised of index and esg, risk management analytics, portfolio management analytics and energy and commodity analytics products. the governance business is comprised of the governance products. revenues and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are included in determining its operating results. other expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based upon allocation methodologies, including time estimates, headcount, net revenues and other relevant usage measures. key financial metrics and drivers revenues our revenues are grouped into the following five product and/or service categories: index and esg this category includes subscription fees from msci equity index data and ipd and esg research and analytics products, fees based on assets in investment products linked to our equity indexes, fees from non-recurring licenses of our equity index historical data and fees from real estate and custom indexes. we also generate a limited amount of revenues based on the trading volume of futures and options contracts linked to our indexes. clients typically subscribe to equity index data modules for use by a specified number of users at a particular location. clients may select delivery from us or delivery via a third-party vendor. we are able to grow our revenues for data subscriptions by expanding the number of client users and their locations and the number of third-party vendors the client uses for delivery of our data modules. the increasing scope and complexity of a client data requirements beyond standard data modules, such as requests for historical data or customized indexes, also provide opportunities for further revenue growth from an existing client. clients who utilize our esg research and analytics products and services pay an annual subscription fee and access these products and services via a web-based application, data feed or third-party vendor. revenues from our index-linked investment product licenses, such as etfs, increase or decrease as a result of changes in value of the assets in the investment products. these changes in the value of the assets in the investment products can result from equity market price changes, investment inflows and outflows and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. in most cases, fees for these licenses are paid quarterly in arrears and are calculated by multiplying a negotiated basis point fee (which in some cases may be based on a product provider total expense ratio) times the average daily assets in the investment product for the most recent period. risk management analytics products this category includes revenues from annual, recurring subscriptions to our risk management analytics products including our two major products, riskmanager and barraone. we have increasing recurring subscriptions to our managed services offering in which our staff oversee the production of risk and performance reports on behalf of our clients. other products in this category include hedgeplatform, intersight, datametrics, wealthbench, credit manager and investorforce. the products offer a consistent risk assessment framework for managing and monitoring investments in a variety of asset classes across an organization. we are able to grow our revenues by licensing additional users and locations as well as selling additional products and services. riskmanager is used by clients for daily analyzing, measuring and monitoring of market risk at fund and firm level, for sensitivity and stress testing, and interactive what-if analysis. riskmanager is a highly scalable platform accessed by clients via a license to a secure, interactive web-based application service, as a fully outsourced risk reporting service or as a web service in which a client systems access riskmetrics core risk elements by connecting directly to our systems. 51 table of contents barraone, powered by the barra integrated model, provides clients with global, multi-asset class risk analysis using barra fundamental factors. the product is accessed by clients via a secure, interactive web-based session, web services or on an outsourced basis. clients generally subscribe to the other products in this category on an annual recurring basis. portfolio management analytics this category includes revenues from annual, recurring subscriptions to barra aegis and our proprietary risk data in barra aegis and barra portfolio manager; equity models direct products; and our proprietary equity risk data incorporated in third-party software application offerings ( e.g., barra on vendors). this category also includes revenues from annual, recurring subscriptions to our fixed income portfolio analytics products. barra aegis is a sophisticated software application for equity risk management and portfolio analysis that is powered by our proprietary equity risk data. it is an integrated suite of equity investment analytics modules, specifically designed to help clients actively manage their equity risk against their expected returns, identify returns attributable to stock selection skills and back-test portfolio construction strategies over time. barra aegis also provides a factor-based performance attribution module, which allows clients to analyze realized returns relative to certain risk factors. a base subscription for use in portfolio analysis typically involves a subscription to barra aegis and various risk data modules. a client may add portfolio performance attribution, optimization tools, process automation tools or other features to its barra aegis subscription. by licensing the client to receive additional software modules and risk data, or increasing the number of permitted client users or client locations, we can increase our revenues per client further. barra portfolio manager is an integrated risk and performance platform that is designed to help fund managers and their teams gain additional portfolio insight, manage a more systematic investment process and make faster, more informed investment decisions. the hosted interactive user interface allows users to construct portfolios and back-test their strategies using the barra optimizer. it also allows users to decompose the risk and attribute the return of their portfolios according to barra models. the platform supports optional data management services that allow users to outsource the loading and reconciliation of their portfolio and other proprietary data. our barra equity models direct risk data is distributed directly to clients who then integrate it into their own software applications or upload the risk data onto third-party applications. the proprietary risk data in barra equity models direct is also available via third-party vendors. a base subscription to our equity models direct product provides equity risk data for a set fee that authorizes one to two users. by licensing the client to receive equity risk model data for additional countries, or increasing the number of permitted client users or client locations, we can further increase our revenues per client. the barra on vendors product makes our proprietary risk data from our equity models direct product available to clients via third party providers, such as factset research systems, inc. energy and commodity analytics our energy and commodity analytics products consist of software applications which help users value and model physical assets and derivatives across a number of market segments including energy and commodity assets. governance our governance offerings consist of corporate governance products and services, including proxy research, data and analytics, recommendation and voting services for asset owners and asset managers, as well as data and 52 table of contents advisory services for corporations. it also includes securities class action monitoring and claims filing services to aid institutional investors in the recovery of funds from securities class action settlements. the substantial majority of the revenues are annual, subscription-based revenues. the largest portion of our non-recurring revenues is included in this category as a result of advisory and consulting services and overages relating to the proxy research and voting services. see part i, item 1. business business segments, products and services for additional details regarding the products and services that we offer. operating metrics run rate at the end of any period, we generally have subscription and investment product license agreements in place for a large portion of our total revenues for the following 12 months. we measure the fees related to these agreements and refer to this as our run rate. the run rate at a particular point in time represents the forward-looking revenues for the next 12 months from all subscriptions and investment product licenses we currently provide to our clients under renewable contracts or agreements assuming all contracts or agreements that come up for renewal are renewed and assuming then-current currency exchange rates. for any license where fees are linked to an investment product assets or trading volume, the run rate calculation reflects for etf fees, the market value on the last trading day of the period, and for non-etf funds and futures and options, the most recent periodic fee earned under such license or subscription. the december 31, 2012 run rate for ipd products was approximated using the trailing 12 months of revenues primarily adjusted for estimates for non-recurring sales, new sales and cancellations. the run rate does not include fees associated with one-time and other non-recurring transactions. in addition, we remove from the run rate the fees associated with any subscription or investment product license agreement with respect to which we have received a notice of termination or non-renewal during the period and determined that such notice evidences the client final decision to terminate or not renew the applicable subscription or agreement, even though such notice is not effective until a later date. because the run rate represents potential future revenues, there is typically a delayed impact on our operating revenues from changes in our run rate. in addition, the actual amount of revenues we will realize over the following 12 months will differ from the run rate because of: revenues associated with new subscriptions and non-recurring sales; modifications, cancellations and non-renewals of existing agreements, subject to specified notice requirements; fluctuations in asset-based fees, which may result from changes in certain investment products total expense ratios, market movements or from investment inflows into and outflows from investment products linked to our indexes; fluctuations in fees based on trading volumes of futures and options contracts linked to our indexes; fluctuations in the number of hedge funds for which we provide investment information and risk analysis to hedge fund investors; price changes; revenue recognition differences under u.s. gaap; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; and the impact of acquisitions and dispositions. 53 table of contents the following table sets forth our run rates and the percentage growth over the periods indicated: as of comparison of december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 december 31, 2013 to 2012 december 31, 2012 to 2011 (in thousands) run rates index and esg products: subscriptions $ 371,511 $ 338,006 $ 269,780 9.9 % 25.3 % asset-based fees 158,305 127,072 119,706 24.6 % 6.2 % index and esg products totals 529,816 465,078 389,486 13.9 % 19.4 % risk management analytics 290,655 262,108 250,967 10.9 % 4.4 % portfolio management analytics 103,125 109,836 118,354 (6.1 %) (7.2 %) energy and commodity analytics 11,302 13,128 14,928 (13.9 %) (12.1 %) governance 115,482 117,261 108,251 (1.5 %) 8.3 % total run rate $ 1,050,380 $ 967,411 $ 881,986 8.6 % 9.7 % subscription total $ 892,075 $ 840,339 $ 762,280 6.2 % 10.2 % asset-based fees total 158,305 127,072 119,706 24.6 % 6.2 % total run rate $ 1,050,380 $ 967,411 $ 881,986 8.6 % 9.7 % december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012 total run rate grew by $83.0 million to $1,050.4 million as of december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012. total subscription run rate grew by $51.7 million to $892.1 million as of december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012. excluding the impact of the acquisition of investor force holdings, inc. ( investorforce ) as well as the disposition of the cfra product line, total subscription run rate grew by $50.4 million as of december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012. subscription run rate from the index and esg products grew by $33.5 million to $371.5 million at december 31, 2013 relative to december 31, 2012, driven by growth in equity index benchmark and data products. on october 2, 2012, the vanguard group, inc. announced its decision to change the target benchmarks of 22 of its etfs from msci equity indexes (the vanguard etfs ). as a result of this announcement, we excluded the $138.5 billion of assets in the 22 vanguard etfs linked to msci equity indexes as of december 31, 2012 for purposes of calculating the index and esg asset-based fee run rate, which resulted in a decrease of $24.8 million. the average value of assets in the 22 vanguard etfs linked to msci equity indexes was $122.1 billion for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to the total average value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes of $349.1 billion. asset-based fee run rate from index and esg products increased by $31.2 million to $158.3 million at december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily driven by inflows into and higher market performance by etfs linked to msci indexes. the asset-based fee run rate at december 31, 2012 excludes the vanguard etfs that later switched benchmarks. as of december 31, 2013, assets under management ( aum ) in etfs linked to msci indexes were $332.9 billion, down $69.4 billion, or 17.3%, compared to december 31, 2012. during the year ended december 31, 2013, msci-linked etfs were impacted by market increases of $33.9 billion and net outflows of $103.3 billion. if the aum related to those vanguard etfs which transitioned earlier in 2013 were excluded from the december 31, 2012 balance, aum in etfs linked to msci indexes would have risen $69.1 billion, or 26.2%, compared to december 31, 2012. 54 table of contents risk management analytics products run rate increased $28.5 million to $290.7 million at december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012. excluding the impact attributable to investorforce, run rate grew by $18.2 million. run rate continued to benefit from solid growth in the riskmanager and barraone products. changes in foreign currency positively benefited run rate by $1.2 million compared to december 31, 2012. portfolio management analytics products run rate declined $6.7 million to $103.1 million at december 31, 2013 from december 31, 2012. year-over-year run rate was negatively impacted, in part, by product swaps totaling $1.1 million and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which lowered run rate by an additional $2.4 million. energy and commodity analytics products run rate declined to $11.3 million at december 31, 2013, down $1.8 million from december 31, 2012. governance products run rate declined by $1.8 million to $115.5 million at december 31, 2013 compared to december 31, 2012. excluding the impact of the sale of the cfra product line from december 31, 2012, run rate grew by $7.2 million reflecting strong growth in the run rate of executive compensation data and analytics products and services. december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011 total run rate grew by $85.4 million to $967.4 million as of december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011. the december 31, 2012 run rate includes $39.5 million that was associated with the ipd acquisition. the run rate for ipd was approximated using the trailing 12 months of revenues primarily adjusted for estimates for non-recurring sales, new sales, and cancellations. excluding the impact of the acquisition of ipd, total run rate grew by $45.9 million. total subscription run rate grew by $78.1 million to $840.3 million as of december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011. changes in foreign currency rates reduced run rate by $0.9 million as of december 31, 2012 relative to december 31, 2011. subscription run rate from the index and esg products grew by $68.2 million to $338.0 million at december 31, 2012 relative to december 31, 2011. excluding the impact of subscription run rate attributable to ipd products, the subscription run rate from index and esg products grew by $28.7 million, driven by growth in equity index benchmark products and esg products. asset-based fee run rate from index and esg products increased by $7.4 million to $127.1 million at december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011. the increase was primarily driven by higher overall levels of aum in etfs linked to msci indexes, partially offset by the loss of the vanguard etfs. excluding the impact of the vanguard etfs at december 31, 2011, asset-based fee run rate would have grown by $25.4 million, or 25.0%. as of december 31, 2012, aum in etfs linked to msci indexes were $402.3 billion, up $100.7 billion, or 33.4%, compared to december 31, 2011. during the year ended december 31, 2012, msci-linked etfs were impacted by market increases of $44.1 billion and net inflows of $56.6 billion. excluding the vanguard etfs, aum in msci-linked etfs would have been $263.8 billion, up $61.7 billion, or 30.6%, compared to december 31, 2011. risk management analytics products run rate increased $11.1 million to $262.1 million at december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011. run rate continued to benefit from solid growth in the hedgeplatform and barraone products. changes in foreign currency positively benefited run rate by $0.4 million compared to december 31, 2011. portfolio management analytics products run rate declined $8.5 million to $109.8 million at december 31, 2012 from december 31, 2011. year-over-year run rate was negatively impacted, in part, by product swaps totaling $3.0 million and by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, which lowered run rate by an additional $1.9 million. 55 table of contents energy and commodity analytics products run rate declined to $13.1 million at december 31, 2012, down $1.8 million from december 31, 2011. governance products run rate increased $9.0 million to $117.3 million at december 31, 2012 compared to december 31, 2011, reflecting strong growth in the sales of our compensation data and analytics products, as well as gains in our institutional proxy research and voting products. changes in run rate between periods may be attributable to, among other things, increases from new subscriptions, decreases from cancellations, increases or decreases, as the case may be, from the change in the value of assets of investment products linked to msci indexes, the change in trading volumes of futures and options contracts linked to msci indexes, price changes, fluctuations in foreign exchange rates and the impact of acquisitions and dispositions. net new recurring subscription sales the following table sets forth our net new recurring subscription sales: for the years ended december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 (in thousands) new recurring subscription sales $ 128,363 $ 118,865 $ 132,015 subscription cancellations (72,987 ) (78,586 ) (71,976 ) net new recurring subscription sales $ 55,376 $ 40,279 $ 60,039 retention rates other key metrics are our aggregate retention rate and core retention rate, which are collectively referred to as retention rates. these metrics are important because subscription cancellations decrease our run rate and ultimately our operating revenues. the annual aggregate retention rate represents the retained subscription run rate (beginning subscription run rate less actual cancels during the year) as a percentage of the subscription run rate at the beginning of the fiscal year. if a client reduces the number of products to which it subscribes or switches between our products, we treat it as a cancellation for purposes of calculating our aggregate retention rate. our core retention rate is calculated in the same way as our aggregate retention rate, except that the core retention rate does not treat switches between products as a cancellation. our aggregate and core retention rates are computed on a product-by-product basis. in addition, we treat any reduction in fees resulting from renegotiated contracts as a cancellation in the calculation to the extent of the reduction. we do not calculate aggregate or core retention rates for that portion of our run rate attributable to assets in investment products linked to our indexes or to trading volumes of futures and options contracts linked to our indexes. aggregate and core retention rates for a non-annual period reflect the annualization of the cancels recorded in the period. 56 table of contents the following table sets forth our aggregate retention rates by product category for the periods indicated for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: index and esg risk management analytics portfolio management analytics energy and commodity analytics governance total 2013 qtr ended march 31, 95.0 % 93.5 % 81.7 % 90.1 % 90.0 % 92.1 % qtr ended june 30, 94.0 % 92.5 % 87.0 % 86.0 % 92.9 % 92.3 % qtr ended september 30, 94.7 % 92.3 % 89.1 % 80.2 % 88.5 % 92.2 % qtr ended december 31, 90.7 % 87.2 % 88.9 % 54.5 % 90.1 % 88.7 % year ended december 31, 93.6 % 91.4 % 86.7 % 77.7 % 90.4 % 91.3 % 2012 qtr ended march 31, 94.5 % 93.9 % 91.9 % 90.2 % 88.7 % 93.0 % qtr ended june 30, 94.9 % 90.0 % 84.2 % 85.5 % 92.1 % 91.0 % qtr ended september 30, 94.0 % 88.5 % 84.9 % 76.6 % 91.1 % 90.0 % qtr ended december 31, 90.4 % 84.4 % 78.0 % 60.4 % 83.6 % 84.9 % year ended december 31, 93.4 % 89.0 % 84.7 % 78.1 % 88.9 % 89.7 % 2011 qtr ended march 31, 95.0 % 94.2 % 88.6 % 76.9 % 85.0 % 91.8 % qtr ended june 30, 92.8 % 92.2 % 91.4 % 88.8 % 90.4 % 91.9 % qtr ended september 30, 95.2 % 92.1 % 86.6 % 89.3 % 86.2 % 91.3 % qtr ended december 31, 89.3 % 80.8 % 87.2 % 75.0 % 80.6 % 84.5 % year ended december 31, 93.1 % 89.5 % 88.4 % 82.5 % 85.6 % 89.8 % the following table sets forth our core retention rates by product category for the periods indicated for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011: index and esg risk management analytics portfolio management analytics energy and commodity analytics governance total 2013 qtr ended march 31, 95.0 % 93.9 % 82.8 % 90.1 % 90.2 % 92.4 % qtr ended june 30, 94.1 % 93.1 % 87.5 % 86.0 % 92.9 % 92.6 % qtr ended september 30, 94.8 % 92.3 % 90.3 % 80.2 % 88.5 % 92.4 % qtr ended december 31, 90.9 % 87.3 % 90.1 % 54.5 % 90.1 % 89.0 % year ended december 31, 93.7 % 91.6 % 87.7 % 77.7 % 90.4 % 91.6 % 2012 qtr ended march 31, 94.6 % 94.0 % 92.2 % 90.7 % 88.7 % 93.1 % qtr ended june 30, 95.0 % 92.0 % 87.0 % 85.5 % 92.2 % 92.2 % qtr ended september 30, 94.0 % 89.3 % 86.5 % 77.1 % 91.2 % 90.6 % qtr ended december 31, 90.5 % 84.4 % 83.6 % 60.4 % 83.8 % 85.9 % year ended december 31, 93.5 % 89.8 % 87.3 % 78.4 % 89.0 % 90.4 % 2011 qtr ended march 31, 95.2 % 94.2 % 89.9 % 76.9 % 85.0 % 92.1 % qtr ended june 30, 92.8 % 92.7 % 93.2 % 88.8 % 90.4 % 92.4 % qtr ended september 30, 95.2 % 92.1 % 88.3 % 91.3 % 86.3 % 91.6 % qtr ended december 31, 89.3 % 81.0 % 88.3 % 75.0 % 80.6 % 84.8 % year ended december 31, 93.1 % 90.0 % 89.9 % 83.0 % 85.6 % 90.2 % 57 table of contents the quarterly retention rates are calculated by annualizing the cancellations for which we have received a notice of termination or non-renewal during the quarter and we have determined that such notice evidences the client final decision to terminate or not renew the applicable subscription or agreement, even though such notice is not effective until a later date. this annualized cancellation figure is then divided by the subscription run rate at the beginning of the year to calculate a cancellation rate. this cancellation rate is then subtracted from 100% to derive the annualized retention rate for the quarter. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2013, we recorded cancellations of $23.8 million. to derive the aggregate retention rate for the fourth quarter, we annualized the actual cancellations during the quarter of $23.8 million to derive $95.0 million of annualized cancellations. this $95.0 million was then divided by the $840.3 million subscription run rate at the beginning of the year to derive a cancellation rate of 11.3%. the 11.3% was then subtracted from 100.0% to derive an aggregate retention rate of 88.7% for the fourth quarter. for the calculation of the core retention rate the same methodology was used except the amount of cancellations in the quarter was reduced by the amount of product swaps. for example, in fourth quarter 2013 we had product swaps of $0.6 million which was subtracted from the $23.8 million of actual cancels to derive core cancels of $23.1 million. this $23.1 million was annualized to derive $92.6 million of annualized cancellations which was then divided by the $840.3 million subscription run rate at the beginning of the year to derive a cancellation rate of 11.0%. the 11.0% was then subtracted from 100.0% to derive the core retention rate of 89.0% for the fourth quarter. for the year ended december 31, 2013, 32.5% of our cancellations occurred in the fourth fiscal quarter. historically, retention rates have generally been higher during the first three quarters and lower in the fourth fiscal quarter. expenses we group our operating expenses into five categories: cost of services, selling, general and administrative ( sg&amp;a ), restructuring, amortization of intangible assets, and depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements. cost of services this category includes costs related to our research, data operations and technology, software engineering, product management and proxy research and voting functions. costs in these areas include staff compensation and benefits, occupancy, market data fees, proxy voting fees, information technology and other miscellaneous costs. the largest expense in this category is compensation and benefits. as such, it generally contributes to a majority of our expense increases from period to period, reflecting compensation increases for current staff and increased staffing levels. selling, general and administrative this category includes compensation and benefits costs for our sales and marketing staff, and our finance, human resources, legal and compliance, information technology and corporate administration personnel. as with cost of services, the largest expense in this category is compensation and benefits. as such, it generally contributes to a majority of our expense increases from period to period, reflecting compensation increases for current staff and increased staffing levels. other significant expenses were for occupancy, third-party consulting costs and information technology. 58 table of contents restructuring during the year ended november 30, 2010, msci management approved, committed to and initiated a plan to restructure the company operations due to its acquisition of riskmetrics group, llc (formerly riskmetrics group, inc., riskmetrics ). the plan was substantially completed by december 31, 2011. restructuring included expenses associated with the elimination of overlapping positions and duplicative occupancy costs, the termination of overlapping vendor contracts and the discontinuance of the planned integration of a product into riskmetrics standard product offering suite. amortization of intangible assets amortization of intangibles expense relates to the definite-lived intangible assets arising from the acquisitions of barra, llc (formerly barra, inc., barra ) in june 2004, riskmetrics in june 2010, measurisk, llc ( measurisk ) in july 2010, ipd in november 2012, and investorforce in january 2013, as well as capitalized software development costs. our intangible assets consist of customer relationships, trademarks and trade names, technology and software, proprietary processes and data and non-competition agreements. we amortize definite-lived intangible assets over their estimated useful lives. definite-lived intangible assets are tested for impairment when impairment indicators are present, and, if impaired, written down to fair value based on either discounted cash flows or appraised values. no impairment of intangible assets has been identified during any of the periods presented. we have no indefinite-lived intangibles. the intangible assets have remaining useful lives ranging from one to 20 years. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements this category consists of expenses related to depreciating or amortizing the cost of furniture and fixtures, computer and related equipment and leasehold improvements over the estimated useful life of the assets. other expense (income), net this category consists primarily of interest we pay on our credit facilities, interest we collect on cash and short-term investments, foreign currency gains and losses as well as other non-operating income and expense items. critical accounting policies and estimates our consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the united states of america ( gaap ). these accounting principles require us to make certain estimates and judgments that can affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the consolidated financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the periods presented. we believe the estimates and judgments upon which we rely are reasonable based upon information available to us at the time these estimates and judgments are made. to the extent there are material differences between these estimates and actual results, our consolidated financial statements will be affected. the accounting policies that reflect our more significant estimates and judgments and that we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our reported financial results include revenue recognition, share-based compensation, research and development, income taxes, deferred revenue, goodwill, intangible assets, allowance for doubtful accounts and accrued compensation. if different assumptions or conditions were to be utilized, the results could be materially different from our reported results. 59 table of contents revenue recognition in general, we apply sec staff accounting bulletin no. 104 ( sab 104 ), revenue recognition , in determining revenue recognition. accordingly, we recognize revenue when all the following criteria are met: we have persuasive evidence of a legally binding arrangement, delivery has occurred, client fee is deemed fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. when a sales arrangement requires the delivery of more than one product and service, revenue is recognized pursuant to the requirements of financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) accounting standards codification ( asc ) subtopic 605-25, revenue arrangements with multiple deliverables . under the provisions of asc subtopic 605-25, elements within a multi-deliverable arrangement should be considered separate units of accounting if all of the following criteria are met: the delivered items have value to the client on a standalone basis. the items have value on a standalone basis if they can be sold separately by any vendor or the client could resell the delivered items on a standalone basis; and if the arrangement includes a general right of return relative to the delivered items, delivery or performance of the undelivered items is considered probable and substantially in the control of the vendor. we provide products and services to our clients under various software and non-software related arrangements. we have signed contracts with substantially all clients that set forth the fees to be paid for our products and services. further, we regularly assess the receivable balances for each client for collectability. our application service license arrangements generally do not include acceptance provisions, which generally allow a client to test the solution for a defined period of time before committing to the license. if a license agreement includes an acceptance provision, we do not recognize subscription revenues until the earlier of the receipt of a written client acceptance or, if not notified by the client that it is cancelling the license agreement, the expiration of the acceptance period. our subscription agreements for non-software-related application services include provisions that, among other things, allow clients, for no additional fee, to receive updates and modifications that may be made from time to time when and if available, for the term of the agreement, which is typically one year. these arrangements do not provide the client with the right to take possession of the application at any time. for sales arrangements with multiple deliverables, which may include application service subscription and professional services associated with implementation and other services, we evaluate each deliverable in these multiple-element arrangements to determine whether it represents a separate unit of accounting and allocate revenue accordingly. in most cases, we recognize revenues from subscription arrangements ratably over the term of the license agreement pursuant to contract terms. the contracts state the terms under which these fees are to be calculated. the fees are recognized as we supply the product and service to the client over the license period and are generally billed in advance prior to the license start date. when implementation services are included, we recognize revenues allocated to the subscription ratably from the date the application is put into production to the end of the license period. revenues associated with the implementation services are recognized ratably over the period the client is expected to benefit from those services. for products and services whose fees are based on estimated aum linked to our indexes, or contract values related to futures and options, we recognize revenues based on estimates from independent third-party sources or the most recently reported information from the client. revenues from subscription agreements for the receipt of periodic benchmarks reports, digests, and other publications, which are most often associated with our ipd products, are recognized upon delivery of such reports or data updates. 60 table of contents our software-related arrangements do not require significant modification or customization of any underlying software applications being licensed. accordingly, we recognize software revenues pursuant to the requirements of asc subtopic 985-605, software-revenue recognition . our subscription agreements for software products include provisions that, among other things, would allow clients to receive unspecified, when and if available, future software upgrades for no additional fee as well as the right to use the software products with maintenance and technical support for the term of the agreement, which is typically one year. software agreements may include other consulting and professional services. in accordance with asc subtopic 985-605, we do not have vendor specific objective evidence for these elements and therefore recognize software related revenue upon delivery, then ratably over the term of the license agreement. share-based compensation certain of our employees have received share-based compensation under certain compensation programs. our compensation expense reflects the fair value method of accounting for share-based payments under asc subtopic 718-10, compensation-stock compensation. asc subtopic 718-10 requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. the fair value of msci restricted stock units ( rsus ) is measured as the closing price of msci common stock on the day prior to grant. restricted stock units subject to performance conditions ( psus ) are based on performance measures that impact the amount of shares that each recipient will receive upon vesting. psus are granted at fair market value, which is measured as the closing price of msci common stock on the day prior to grant. the fair value of msci standard stock options is determined using the black-scholes valuation model and the single grant life method. under the single grant life method, option awards with graded vesting are valued using a single weighted-average expected option life. the fair value of msci stock options that contain stock price contingencies is determined using a monte carlo simulation model, which creates a normal distribution of future stock prices, which is then used to value the awards based on their individual terms. based on interpretive guidance related to stock compensation, the company policy is to accrue the estimated cost of share-based awards that were granted to retirement-eligible employees over the course of the prior year in which they were earned rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant. a portion of the restricted stock units granted to employees are subject to certain performance conditions. the company bases initial accruals of compensation cost on the estimated number of instruments for which the requisite service is expected to be rendered. if the estimated number of instruments changes from previous estimates, the cumulative effect on current and prior periods of a change is recognized in compensation cost in the period of the change. research and development costs we account for research and development costs in accordance with asc subtopic 730-10, research and development . asc subtopic 730-10 requires that research and development costs generally be expensed as incurred. the majority of our research and development costs are incurred in developing, reviewing and enhancing the methodologies and data models offered within our product portfolio. research and development costs included in the consolidated statements of income were $93.6 million, $95.5 million and $90.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. we apply the provisions of asc subtopic 350-40, internal use software, and account for the cost of computer software by capitalizing qualifying costs, which are incurred during the application development stage. the amounts capitalized include external direct costs of services used in developing software and the payroll and payroll-related costs of employees directly associated with the development activities. additionally, costs incurred relating to upgrades and enhancements to the software are capitalized if it is determined that these 61 table of contents upgrades or enhancements provide additional functionality to the software. we capitalized $3.3 million of costs related to developed software in the consolidated statement of financial condition for the year ended december 31, 2013. there were no costs capitalized related to developed software in the consolidated statement of financial condition for the year ended december 31, 2012. capitalized software development costs are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of the related product, which is typically three to five years, beginning with the date the software is placed into service. costs incurred in the preliminary and post-implementation stages of our products are expensed as incurred. income taxes income tax expense is provided for using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are determined based on the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently enacted tax rates. we regularly assess the likelihood of additional assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions in which we are required to file income tax returns. we recorded additional tax expense related to open tax years, which we believe is adequate in relation to the potential for assessments. these amounts have been recorded in other non-current liabilities on the consolidated statement of financial condition. we believe the resolution of tax matters will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition. however, to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, a resolution could have a material impact on our consolidated statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of cash and result in an increase in the effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. deferred revenue deferred revenues represent amounts billed to customers for products and services in advance of delivery. our clients generally pay subscription fees annually or quarterly in advance. deferred revenue is generally amortized over the service period as revenue recognition criteria are met. where the service period has not begun and the client has not paid or the contract has not been renewed, deferred revenues and accounts receivable are not recognized. goodwill goodwill is recorded as part of our acquisitions of businesses when the purchase price exceeds the fair value of the net tangible and separately identifiable intangible assets acquired. our goodwill relates to the acquisitions of barra, riskmetrics, measurisk, ipd and investorforce. our goodwill is not amortized, but rather is subject to an impairment test each year, or more often if conditions indicate impairment may have occurred, pursuant to asc topic 350, intangibles goodwill and other . we test goodwill for impairment on an annual basis on july 1 and on an interim basis when certain events and circumstances exist. the testing for impairment is performed at the reporting unit level, which is deemed to be at the level of the msci operating segments. goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting unit with its respective book value. if the estimated fair value exceeds the book value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. if the estimated fair value is below book value, however, further analysis is required to determine the amount of impairment. additionally, if the book value of a reporting unit is zero or a negative value and it is determined that it is more likely than not that the goodwill is impaired, further analysis is required. as the estimated fair value of its reporting units exceeded their respective book value on the testing dates, no impairment of goodwill was recorded during the years ended december 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011. 62 table of contents allowance for doubtful accounts an allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded when it is probable and estimable that a receivable will not be collected. changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts from december 31, 2010 to december 31, 2013 were as follows: (in thousands) amount balance as of december 31, 2010 $ 877 addition to provision 545 amounts written off, net of recoveries (565 ) balance as of december 31, 2011 857 addition to provision 403 amounts written off, net of recoveries (296 ) balance as of december 31, 2012 $ 964 addition to provision 876 amounts written off, net of recoveries (560 ) balance as of december 31, 2013 $ 1,280 accrued compensation we make significant estimates in determining our accrued non-stock based compensation and benefits expenses. a significant portion of our employee incentive compensation programs are discretionary. each year end we determine the amount of discretionary cash bonus pools. we also review compensation and benefits expenses throughout the year to determine how overall performance compares to management expectations. we take these and other factors, including historical performance, into account in reviewing accrued discretionary cash compensation estimates quarterly and adjusting accrual rates as appropriate. changes to these factors could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of expense that we report in a particular period. accrued non-stock-based compensation and related benefits as of december 31, 2013 was $113.0 million. factors affecting the comparability of results acquisition of investorforce on january 29, 2013, we acquired investorforce to enhance our position as a leader in performance analysis and risk transparency and to further our goal of providing investment decision support tools to institutional investors across all client segments and asset classes. see note 9, goodwill and intangible assets of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein for further information. the results of investorforce were included in our results of operations from its acquisition date of january 29, 2013. acquisition of ipd on november 30, 2012, we acquired ipd to expand the company multi-asset class offering by integrating private real estate assets into its models, as well as adding a family of real estate benchmarks to the company family of equity indexes. see note 9, goodwill and intangible assets of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein for further information. the results of ipd were included in our results of operations from its acquisition date of november 30, 2012. restructuring we initiated restructuring activities during the third quarter of 2010 and the plan was substantially completed by december 31, 2011. see results of operations year ended december 31, 2012 compared to year ended december 31, 2011 restructuring below for further information about msci restructuring-related activities and costs. 63 table of contents term loan repricing on june 1, 2010, we entered into a senior secured credit agreement comprised of (i) a six-year term loan facility (the 2010 term loan ) and (ii) a five-year revolving credit facility (the revolving credit facility, together with the 2010 term loan, the 2010 credit facility ). on march 14, 2011, we completed the repricing of the 2010 credit facility pursuant to amendment no. 2 to the 2010 credit facility ( amendment no. 2 ). amendment no. 2 provided for the incurrence of a new senior secured term loan (the 2011 term loan ). the proceeds of the 2011 term loan, together with cash on hand, were used to repay the remaining outstanding balance of the 2010 term loan in full. the 2011 term loan was to mature in march 2017. on may 4, 2012, we amended and restated our 2010 credit facility (the credit agreement as so amended and restated, the amended and restated credit facility ). the amended and restated credit facility provides for the incurrence of a new senior secured five-year term loan a facility in an aggregate amount of $880.0 million (the 2012 term loan ) and a $100.0 million senior secured revolving facility (the 2012 revolving credit facility ). the proceeds of the amended and restated credit facility, together with cash on hand, were used to repay the remaining outstanding principal of the then-existing 2011 term loan. the 2012 term loan and the 2012 revolving credit facility was to mature on may 4, 2017. at december 31, 2013, the 2012 term loan, as amended, bore interest of libor plus 2.00%, or 2.17%. results of operations year ended december 31, 2013 compared to year ended december 31, 2012 for the years ended december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 increase/(decrease) (in thousands, except per share data) operating revenues $ 1,035,667 $ 950,141 $ 85,526 9.0% operating expenses: cost of services 328,311 288,075 40,236 14.0 % selling, general and administrative 255,345 233,183 22,162 9.5 % restructuring (51 ) 51 (100 %) amortization of intangible assets 58,203 63,298 (5,095 ) (8.0 %) depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements 22,302 18,700 3,602 19.3 % total operating expenses 664,161 603,205 60,956 10.1 % operating income 371,506 346,936 24,570 7.1 % other expense, net 25,885 57,527 (31,642 ) (55.0 %) provision for income taxes 123,064 105,171 17,893 17.0 % net income $ 222,557 $ 184,238 $ 38,319 20.8 % earnings per basic common share $ 1.85 $ 1.50 $ 0.35 23.3 % earnings per diluted common share $ 1.83 $ 1.48 $ 0.35 23.6 % operating margin 35.9 % 36.5 % 64 table of contents operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 increase/(decrease) (in thousands) index and esg: subscriptions $ 366,674 $ 300,630 $ 66,044 22.0 % asset-based fees 149,486 140,883 8,603 6.1 % total index and esg 516,160 441,513 74,647 16.9 % risk management analytics 279,353 260,276 19,077 7.3 % portfolio management analytics 105,461 116,133 (10,672 ) (9.2 %) energy and commodity analytics 12,390 9,068 3,322 36.6 % governance 122,303 123,151 (848 ) (0.7 %) total operating revenues $ 1,035,667 $ 950,141 $ 85,526 9.0 % recurring subscriptions 860,730 784,331 76,399 9.7 % asset-based fees 149,486 140,883 8,603 6.1 % non-recurring revenue 25,451 24,927 524 2.1 % total operating revenues $ 1,035,667 $ 950,141 $ 85,526 9.0 % total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased 9.0% to $1,035.7 million compared to $950.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the growth was comprised of increases in index and esg subscription revenues and risk management analytics, partially offset by a decrease in portfolio management analytics. excluding the impact of revenues attributable to ipd from january 1, 2013 to november 30, 2013 (the ipd exclusion period ), investorforce and cfra, revenues grew by 4.4%. during the year ended december 31, 2012, as a result of a one-time non-cash adjustment, we recorded a $5.2 million cumulative revenue reduction to correct an immaterial error related to revenues previously reported through december 31, 2011. see note 1, introduction and basis of presentation, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein for further information. previously, our policy resulted in the immediate recognition of a substantial portion of the revenue for certain energy and commodity analytics product related contracts, the terms of which were generally one year. however, it was determined that the entire license fee related to these contracts should be recognized ratably over the term of the license. as such, we made the cumulative adjustment effective january 1, 2012 and started recognizing revenue for all contracts still in effect as of this date ratably over the remainder of the term. we began recognizing revenue ratably over the contract term for any new contracts entered into on or after january 1, 2012. revenues related to index and esg products increased 16.9% to $516.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $441.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. excluding the impact of revenues attributable to the ipd exclusion period, revenues grew by 7.3%. subscription revenues from the index and esg products increased 22.0% to $366.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $300.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase in subscription revenues from the index and esg products was driven primarily by the impact of revenues attributable to the ipd acquisition, as well as by increases in revenues attributable to our equity index benchmark products. excluding the impact of subscription revenues attributable to the ipd exclusion period, revenues grew by $23.7 million, or 7.9%. 65 table of contents asset-based fee revenues attributable to index and esg products increased $8.6 million, or 6.1%, to $149.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $140.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the year-over-year difference resulted from higher revenues from non-etf passive funds and a change in the mix of etfs linked to msci indexes, which more than offset a decline of $24.1 billion, or 6.9%, in the average value of assets in etfs linked to msci indexes primarily related to the loss of the vanguard etfs. included in the year ended december 31, 2013 were asset based fees of $3.3 million related to the vanguard etfs, compared to $21.8 million included in the year ended december 31, 2012. the average value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes in the aggregate decreased 6.9% to $325.0 billion for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $349.1 billion for the year ended december 31, 2012. the switching of the vanguard etfs was completed by the end of june 2013. the average value of assets related to the vanguard etfs was $29.8 billion and $122.1 billion for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. as of december 31, 2013, the value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes was $332.9 billion, representing a decrease of 17.3% from $402.3 billion as of december 31, 2012. of the $332.9 billion of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes as of december 31, 2013, 53.0% were linked to indexes related to developed markets outside of the u.s., 27.7% were linked to emerging market indexes, 14.4% were linked to u.s. market indexes and 4.9% were linked to other global indexes. the following table sets forth the value of assets in etfs linked to msci indexes and the sequential change of such assets as of the periods indicated: period ended 2012 2013 march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (amounts in billions) aum in etfs linked to msci indexes $ 354.7 $ 327.4 $ 363.7 $ 402.3 $ 357.3 $ 269.7 $ 302.6 $ 332.9 sequential change in value market appreciation/(depreciation) $ 37.9 $ (27.6 ) $ 21.1 $ 12.7 $ 16.0 $ (13.2 ) $ 20.2 $ 10.9 cash inflow/(outflow) 15.2 0.3 15.2 25.9 (61.0 ) (1) (74.4 ) (1) 12.7 19.4 total change $ 53.1 $ (27.3 ) $ 36.3 $ 38.6 $ (45.0 ) $ (87.6 ) $ 32.9 $ 30.3 source: bloomberg and msci (1) includes the loss of $82.8 billion and $74.8 billion of aum related to certain vanguard etfs as of march 31, 2013 and june 30, 2013, respectively. the historical values of the assets in etfs linked to our indexes as of the last day of the month and the monthly average balance can be found under the link aum in etfs linked to msci indexes on our website at http://ir.msci.com . this information is updated on the second u.s. business day of each month. information contained on our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on form 10-k or any other report filed with the sec. revenues related to risk management analytics products increased $19.1 million, or 7.3%, to $279.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $260.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase in risk management analytics revenues was driven primarily by the increases in revenues attributable to our riskmanager and hedge platform products, as well as by the impact of revenues attributable to investorforce. excluding the impact of revenues attributable to investorforce, revenues grew by 3.9%. 66 table of contents revenues related to portfolio management analytics products decreased 9.2% to $105.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $116.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decrease in revenues was the result of lower sales and elevated cancellations of equity analytics products in prior periods. revenues from energy and commodity analytics products increased $3.3 million, or 36.6%, to $12.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $9.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. excluding the impact of the $5.2 million revenue adjustment recorded during the year ended december 31, 2012, revenues from our energy and commodity analytics products would have decreased $1.9 million compared to the year ended december 31, 2012. revenues related to our governance products decreased 0.7% to $122.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $123.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the loss of the cfra product line revenues was only partially offset by the growth in our executive compensation data and analytics products. excluding the impact of revenues attributable to the cfra product line, revenues from governance products grew by 5.6%. operating expenses operating expenses increased $61.0 million, or 10.1%, to $664.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $603.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the $61.0 million increase primarily reflects higher compensation costs. the following table shows operating expenses by each of the categories: years ended december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 increase/(decrease) (in thousands) cost of services: compensation and benefits $ 243,725 $ 216,018 $ 27,707 12.8 % non-compensation expenses 84,586 72,057 12,529 17.4 % total cost of services 328,311 288,075 40,236 14.0 % selling, general and administrative: compensation and benefits 175,945 157,185 18,760 11.9 % non-compensation expenses 79,400 75,998 3,402 4.5 % total selling, general and administrative 255,345 233,183 22,162 9.5 % restructuring (51 ) 51 (100.0 %) amortization of intangible assets 58,203 63,298 (5,095 ) (8.0 %) depreciation of property, equipment and leasehold improvements 22,302 18,700 3,602 19.3 % total operating expenses $ 664,161 $ 603,205 $ 60,956 10.1 % compensation and benefits $ 419,670 $ 373,203 $ 46,467 12.5 % non-compensation expenses 163,986 148,055 15,931 10.8 % restructuring (51 ) 51 (100.0 %) amortization of intangible assets 58,203 63,298 (5,095 ) (8.0 %) depreciation of property, equipment and leasehold improvements 22,302 18,700 3,602 19.3 % total operating expenses $ 664,161 $ 603,205 $ 60,956 10.1 % 67 table of contents compensation and benefits expenses represent the majority of our expenses across all of our operating functions and have typically represented approximately 60% of our total operating expenses. these costs generally contribute to the majority of our expense increases from period to period, reflecting increased compensation and benefits expenses for current staff and increased staffing levels. as of december 31, 2013, the number of employees increased by 502 to 3,261 from 2,759 on december 31, 2012, reflecting the addition of investorforce and increased staffing levels, partially offset by the sale of the cfra product line. continued growth of our emerging market centers around the world is an important factor in our ability to manage and control the growth of our compensation and benefit expenses. approximately 46.6% and 40.6% of our employees were located in emerging market centers as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. compensation and benefits costs for the year ended december 31, 2013, were $419.7 million, an increase of $46.5 million, or 12.5%, compared to $373.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase in compensation and benefits costs primarily reflects $51.7 million of increased costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, partially offset by $4.1 million of lower severance costs, $0.9 million of lower post-retirement and other expenses and $0.2 million of lower stock-based compensation expenses. non-compensation expenses for the year ended december 31, 2013 were $164.0 million, an increase of $15.9 million, or 10.8%, compared to $148.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increased costs associated with the ipd and investorforce acquisitions, in addition to increased travel, marketing costs and expenses as a result of the previously announced decision to explore strategic alternatives for our governance segment, were partially offset by lower transaction-related expenses, information technology, other taxes and occupancy costs. the impact of the $3.8 million lease exit charge associated with vacating our 88 pine street office space in new york (the lease exit charge ) recognized in the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a corresponding benefit of $0.4 million recognized in the year ended december 31, 2013 also decreased non-compensation expenses year over year. cost of services for the year ended december 31, 2013, total cost of services increased $40.2 million, or 14.0%, to $328.3 million compared to $288.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. within cost of services, compensation and benefits expenses for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased $27.7 million, or 12.8%, to $243.7 million compared to $216.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase in compensation and benefits expenses was primarily impacted by the acquisitions of ipd and investorforce and an overall increase in staffing levels. partially offsetting this were lower post-retirement and other expenses and lower severance costs. within cost of services, non-compensation expenses for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased $12.5 million, or 17.4%, to $84.6 million compared to $72.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily driven by the acquisitions of ipd and investorforce, partially offset by the impact of the lease exit charge recognized in the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a corresponding benefit recognized in the year ended december 31, 2013. selling, general and administrative sg&amp;a expenses increased 9.5% to $255.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $233.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. within sg&amp;a, compensation and benefits expenses increased 11.9% to $175.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to $157.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. similar to compensation and benefits expenses in cost of services, the increase was primarily impacted by the acquisition of ipd and investorforce and an overall increase in staffing levels. partially offsetting this were lower severance costs and lower equity compensation costs. 68 table of contents within sg&amp;a, non-compensation expenses for the year ended december 31, 2013 increased $3.4 million, or 4.5%, to $79.4 million compared to $76.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily the result of increased costs associated with the ipd and investorforce acquisitions, along with expenses as a result of the previously announced decision to explore strategic alternatives for our governance segment. this more than offset the lower transaction-related expenses, the impact of the lease exit charge recognized in the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a corresponding benefit recognized in the year ended december 31, 2013, other taxes and information technology costs. within sg&amp;a, selling expenses increased 11.2% to $106.2 million and general and administrative expenses increased 8.3% to $149.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. amortization of intangibles for the year ended december 31, 2013, amortization of intangibles expense totaled $58.2 million compared to $63.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the decrease primarily resulted from a portion of the intangible assets becoming fully amortized since the prior period, partially offset by the increased amortization of intangible assets resulting from the ipd and investorforce acquisitions. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements totaled $22.3 million and $18.7 million, respectively. the increase was related to the impact of increased depreciation from the ipd and investorforce acquisitions, as well as the depreciation of hardware and software assets acquired to build out data centers in the second half of the year ended december 31, 2012. other expense (income), net other expense (income), net for the year ended december 31, 2013 was $25.9 million, a decrease of $31.6 million, or 55.0%, compared to $57.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. for the year ended december 31, 2012, $20.6 million of expense was recognized related to the accelerated amortization of existing fees and the immediate recognition of new fees associated with our may 2012 debt refinancing compared to $1.4 million of expense recognized in the year ended december 31, 2013 associated with our december 2013 debt extension. the remaining difference was primarily the result of the impact on interest expense of lower average outstanding principal on our debt and lower associated interest rates. income taxes the provision for income tax expense was $123.1 million and $105.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. these amounts reflect effective tax rates of 35.6% and 36.3% for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the effective tax rate of 35.6% for the year ended december 31, 2013 reflects our operating tax rate adjusted for the impact of certain discrete items, the effect of which was to decrease our operating tax rate by 1.2 percentage points. included in the discrete items was the benefit associated with the 2012 federal research and development credit, which was reinstated into law as of january 2, 2013, which decreased our effective tax rate for the year ended december 31, 2013 by 0.4 percentage points. the effective tax rate of 35.6% for the year ended december 31, 2013 was lower than the prior year primarily because of the inclusion of the benefits associated with the federal research and development credit in our provision for income tax expense for the year ended december 31, 2013. 69 table of contents segment results of operations the table below reflects the results of operations by segment for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012: year ended december 31, 2013 year ended december 31, 2012 performance and risk governance total performance and risk governance total (in thousands) operating revenues $ 913,364 $ 122,303 $ 1,035,667 $ 826,990 $ 123,151 $ 950,141 cost of services 273,821 54,490 328,311 228,072 60,003 288,075 selling, general and administrative 219,957 35,388 255,345 199,221 33,962 233,183 restructuring (32 ) (19 ) (51 ) amortization of intangible assets 44,798 13,405 58,203 50,017 13,281 63,298 depreciation expense 18,288 4,014 22,302 15,165 3,535 18,700 total operating expenses 556,864 107,297 664,161 492,443 110,762 603,205 operating income 356,500 15,006 371,506 334,547 12,389 346,936 other expense (income), net 25,885 57,527 income before provision for income taxes 345,621 289,409 provision for income taxes 123,064 105,171 net income $ 222,557 $ 184,238 performance and risk total operating revenues for the performance and risk business increased $86.4 million, or 10.4%, to $913.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the increase was primarily driven by higher asset-based fees from our index and esg products, higher revenues in our equity index benchmark products, growth within our risk management analytics products, partially offset by lower revenues from portfolio management analytics. cost of services for the performance and risk business increased $45.7 million, or 20.1%, to $273.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. within cost of services, compensation and benefits expenses increased $30.9 million to $202.4 million primarily driven by higher costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, which was partially related to the ipd and investorforce acquisitions and partly offset by lower severance costs and post-retirement and other expenses. non-compensation expenses increased $14.8 million to $71.4 million. the increased costs are associated with the ipd and investorforce acquisitions, as well as higher marketing and travel costs, partially offset by the impact of the lease exit charge recognized in the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a corresponding benefit recognized in the year ended december 31, 2013. sg&amp;a expense for the performance and risk business increased $20.7 million, or 10.4%, to $220.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. within sg&amp;a, compensation and benefits expenses increased $18.6 million to $153.0 million primarily as a result of higher costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, partially related to the ipd and investorforce acquisitions, partly offset by lower severance costs. non-compensation expenses increased $2.1 million to $66.9 million. the increased costs associated with the acquisitions more than offset the lower expenses recognized for transaction related and non-recurring costs, the impact of the lease exit charge recognized in the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to a corresponding benefit recognized in the year ended december 31, 2013, information technology costs and other taxes. 70 table of contents amortization of intangibles expense for the performance and risk business totaled $44.8 million and $50.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the decrease primarily resulted from a portion of intangible assets becoming fully amortized since the prior period, partially offset by the increased amortization associated with the intangible assets arising from the ipd and investorforce acquisitions. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements for the performance and risk business totaled $18.3 million and $15.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the increase was related to the impact of increased depreciation from the ipd and investorforce acquisitions, as well as the depreciation of hardware and software assets acquired to build out data centers in the second half of the year ended december 31, 2012. governance on march 31, 2013, we completed the sale of our cfra product line, which was a component of the governance business. the sale was a driver of some of the year-over-year changes in the governance business results of operations. total operating revenues for the governance business decreased $0.8 million, or 0.7%, to $122.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. the loss of the cfra product line revenues within the governance business more than offset the growth in executive compensation data and analytics products. excluding the impact of revenues attributable to the cfra product line, revenues from governance products grew by 5.6%. cost of services for the governance business decreased $5.5 million to $54.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. within cost of services, compensation and benefits expenses decreased $3.2 million to $41.3 million primarily as a result of the disposition of the cfra product line, as well as lower severance costs, partially offset by higher costs related to current staff. non-compensation expenses decreased $2.3 million to $13.2 million primarily resulting from the disposition of the cfra product line, as well as lower occupancy costs, third-party professional fees, and information technology costs. sg&amp;a expense for the governance business increased $1.4 million to $35.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2013. within sg&amp;a, compensation and benefits expenses increased $0.1 million to $22.9 million, with higher costs related to current staff more than offsetting the impact of the disposition of the cfra product line. non-compensation expenses increased $1.3 million to $12.5 million. the increase was primarily related to expenses incurred as a result of the previously announced decision to explore strategic alternatives for our governance segment, partially offset by the disposition of the cfra product line. amortization of intangibles expense for the governance business totaled $13.4 million and $13.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements for the governance business totaled $4.0 million and $3.5 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. 71 table of contents results of operations year ended december 31, 2012 compared to year ended december 31, 2011 for the years ended december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 increase/(decrease) (in thousands, except per share data) operating revenues $ 950,141 $ 900,941 $ 49,200 5.5 % operating expenses: cost of services 288,075 277,147 10,928 3.9 % selling, general and administrative 233,183 212,972 20,211 9.5 % restructuring (51 ) 3,594 (3,645 ) (101.4 %) amortization of intangible assets 63,298 65,805 (2,507 ) (3.8 %) depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements 18,700 19,425 (725 ) (3.7 %) total operating expenses 603,205 578,943 24,262 4.2 % operating income 346,936 321,998 24,938 7.7 % other expense, net 57,527 58,585 (1,058 ) (1.8 %) provision for income taxes 105,171 89,959 15,212 16.9 % net income $ 184,238 $ 173,454 $ 10,784 6.2 % earnings per basic common share $ 1.50 $ 1.43 $ 0.07 4.9 % earnings per diluted common share $ 1.48 $ 1.41 $ 0.07 5.0 % operating margin 36.5 % 35.7 % operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 increase/(decrease) (in thousands) index and esg: subscriptions $ 300,630 $ 264,390 $ 36,240 13.7 % asset-based fees 140,883 140,243 640 0.5 % total index and esg 441,513 404,633 36,880 9.1 % risk management analytics 260,276 243,570 16,706 6.9 % portfolio management analytics 116,133 118,889 (2,756 ) (2.3 %) energy and commodity analytics 9,068 14,263 (5,195 ) (36.4 %) governance 123,151 119,586 3,565 3.0 % total operating revenues $ 950,141 $ 900,941 $ 49,200 5.5 % recurring subscriptions $ 784,331 732,473 51,858 7.1 % asset-based fees 140,883 135,981 4,902 3.6 % non-recurring revenue 24,927 32,487 (7,560 ) (23.3 %) total operating revenues $ 950,141 $ 900,941 $ 49,200 5.5 % 72 table of contents total operating revenues for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased $49.2 million, or 5.5%, to $950.1 million compared to $900.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. revenues related to index and esg products increased $36.9 million, or 9.1%, to $441.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $404.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. subscription revenues from the index and esg products increased $36.2 million, or 13.7%, to $300.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $264.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase was substantially attributable to growth in our core benchmark products. asset-based fee revenues attributable to the index and esg products increased 0.5% to $140.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $140.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the average value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes in the aggregate increased 4.7% to $349.1 billion for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $333.5 billion for the year ended december 31, 2011. as of december 31, 2012, the value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes was $402.3 billion, representing an increase of 33.4% from $301.6 billion as of december 31, 2011. of the $402.3 billion of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes as of december 31, 2012, 40.6% were linked to emerging market indexes, 32.8% were linked to developed markets outside of the u.s., 23.4% were linked to u.s. market indexes and 3.2% were linked to other global indexes. the following table sets forth the value of assets in etfs linked to msci indexes and the sequential change of such assets as of the periods indicated: period ended 2011 2012 march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 march 31 june 30 september 30 december 31 (amounts in billions) aum in etfs linked to msci indexes $ 350.1 $ 360.5 $ 290.1 $ 301.6 $ 354.7 $ 327.4 $ 363.7 $ 402.3 sequential change in value market appreciation/(depreciation) $ 10.1 $ (3.8 ) $ (70.4 ) $ 10.5 $ 37.9 $ (27.6 ) $ 21.1 $ 12.7 cash inflow/(outflow) 6.7 14.2 1.0 15.2 0.3 15.2 25.9 total change $ 16.8 $ 10.4 $ (70.4 ) $ 11.5 $ 53.1 $ (27.3 ) $ 36.3 $ 38.6 source: bloomberg and msci revenues related to risk management analytics products increased $16.7 million, or 6.9%, to $260.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $243.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the growth is primarily driven by increased sales of our barraone and riskmanager products. revenues related to portfolio management analytics products decreased $2.8 million, or 2.3%, to $116.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $118.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. within the portfolio management analytics products, equity portfolio analytics tools decreased $1.7 million to $112.6 million and fixed income analytics tools decreased $1.1 million to $3.5 million. revenues from energy and commodity analytics products decreased 36.4% to $9.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $14.3 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. excluding the 73 table of contents impact of the $5.2 million revenue adjustment recorded during the year ended december 31, 2012, revenues from our energy and commodity analytics products would have been flat compared to the year ended december 31, 2011. governance products were up $3.6 million, or 3.0%, to $123.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $119.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2011 driven by higher revenues from our compensation and advisory products and services. operating expenses operating expenses increased 4.2% to $603.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $578.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the $24.3 million increase primarily reflects higher compensation costs. the following table shows operating expenses by each of the categories: years ended december 31, 2012 november 30, 2011 increase/(decrease) (in thousands) cost of services: compensation and benefits $ 216,018 $ 202,597 $ 13,421 6.6 % non-compensation expenses 72,057 74,550 (2,493 ) (3.3 %) total cost of services 288,075 277,147 3.9 % selling, general and administrative: compensation and benefits 157,185 143,490 13,695 9.5 % non-compensation expenses 75,998 69,482 6,516 9.4 % total selling, general and administrative 233,183 212,972 20,211 9.5 % restructuring (51 ) 3,594 (3,645 ) (101.4 %) amortization of intangible assets 63,298 65,805 (2,507 ) (3.8 %) depreciation of property, equipment and leasehold improvements 18,700 19,425 (725 ) (3.7 %) total operating expenses $ 603,205 $ 578,943 $ 24,262 4.2 % compensation and benefits $ 373,203 $ 346,087 $ 27,116 7.8 % non-compensation expenses 148,055 144,032 4,023 2.8 % restructuring (51 ) 3,594 (3,645 ) (101.4 %) amortization of intangible assets 63,298 65,805 (2,507 ) (3.8 %) depreciation of property, equipment and leasehold improvements 18,700 19,425 (725 ) (3.7 %) total operating expenses $ 603,205 $ 578,943 $ 24,262 4.2 % as of december 31, 2012, the number of employees increased by 330 to 2,759 from 2,429 on december 31, 2011, primarily related to the acquisition of ipd. approximately 40.6% and 39.2% of our employees were located in emerging market centers as of december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. compensation and benefits costs for the year ended december 31, 2012, were $373.2 million, an increase of $27.1 million, or 7.8%, compared to $346.1 million for year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in compensation and benefits costs primarily reflects $22.8 million of increased costs related to staffing levels and $10.5 million of increased post-retirement and other costs, partially offset by $6.2 million of decreased stock based compensation costs. 74 table of contents included in compensation and benefits costs, stock based compensation expense for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $24.7 million, a decrease of 20.0% compared to $30.9 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the decrease was primarily caused by lower expense associated with the amortization of restricted stock units and options awarded to certain of our employees in connection with our initial public offering in november 2007 (the founders grant award ) and a decrease associated with the equity award granted in june 2010 to certain employees in connection with the riskmetrics acquisition (the performance award ). the decrease in the expense related to the founders grant award is attributable to the award final vesting that occurred in november 2011. approximately $3.0 million of the stock based compensation expense was related to the founders grant award for the year ended december 31, 2011. for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, $1.8 million and $4.9 million, respectively, of the stock-based compensation expense was associated with the performance award. non-compensation expenses for the year ended december 31, 2012 were $148.1 million, an increase of 2.8%, compared to $144.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase was driven primarily by the impact of recording the lease exit charge. cost of services for the year ended december 31, 2012, total cost of services increased 3.9% to $288.1 million compared to $277.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. within cost of services, compensation and benefits expenses for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased $13.4 million, or 6.6%, to $216.0 million compared to $202.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in compensation and benefits costs primarily reflects increased costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, higher severance costs and increased post-retirement and other costs, partially offset by decreased stock based compensation costs. within cost of services, non-compensation expenses for the year ended december 31, 2012 decreased 3.3% to $72.1 million compared to $74.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the decrease was largely due to lower travel costs, market data costs, recruiting costs and outside professional fees, partially offset by the lease exit charge. selling, general and administrative sg&amp;a expenses increased $20.2 million, or 9.5%, to $233.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $213.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. within sg&amp;a, compensation and benefits expenses increased $13.7 million, or 9.5%, to $157.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012 compared to $143.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase in compensation and benefits costs primarily reflects increased costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels and increased post-retirement and other costs, partially offset by decreased stock based compensation costs. within sg&amp;a, non-compensation expenses for the year ended december 31, 2012 increased $6.5 million, or 9.4%, to $76.0 million compared to $69.5 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the increase was primarily the result of higher occupancy costs, including the lease exit charge. within sg&amp;a, selling expenses increased 6.5% to $95.5 million and general and administrative expenses increased 11.7% to $137.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. 75 table of contents restructuring there was less than $0.1 million of restructuring benefits recognized during the year ended december 31, 2012, relating to adjustments made for costs accrued for the elimination of overlapping positions. restructuring expense was $3.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. approximately $0.7 million of the 2011 expense was associated with the elimination of overlapping positions and $2.9 million of the expense was associated with eliminating duplicative occupancy costs. amortization of intangibles for the year ended december 31, 2012, amortization of intangibles expense totaled $63.3 million compared to $65.8 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the decrease was the result of a portion of the intangible assets becoming fully amortized during the year ended december 31, 2012. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, depreciation and amortization of property, equipment and leasehold improvements totaled $18.7 million and $19.4 million, respectively. the decrease was primarily related to the impact of eliminating certain assets associated with duplicative occupancy and certain information technology assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by the increased depreciation associated with the build-out and occupancy of our new offices in new york and maryland. other expense (income), net other expense (income), net for the year ended december 31, 2012 was $57.5 million, a decrease of $1.1 million compared to $58.6 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. the decrease was primarily the result of the impact on interest expense of lower average outstanding principal on our debt and lower associated interest rates, partially offset by the accelerated recognition of deferred financing costs as a result of our refinancing activities. income taxes the provision for income tax expense was $105.2 million and $90.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. these amounts reflect effective tax rates of 36.3% and 34.2% for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the effective tax rate of 36.3% for the year ended december 31, 2012 reflects our operating tax rate and the impact of the settlement of tax issues with morgan stanley which increased the rate by 0.5 percentage points, non-deductible transaction costs related to the acquisition of ipd which increased the rate by 0.2 percentage points and other discrete items which increased the rate by 0.2 percentage points. the effective tax rate of 34.2% for the year ended december 31, 2011 reflected our operating tax rate and the impact of the change in our intention to permanently reinvest the undistributed earnings of three of our foreign operations which decreased the rate by 1.1 percentage points, the benefit of the federal research and development credit which decreased the rate by 0.5 percentage points and other discrete items which decreased the rate by 0.4 percentage points. 76 table of contents segment results of operations the table below reflects the results of operations by segment for the years ended december 31, 2012 and december 31, 2011: year ended december 31, 2012 year ended december 31, 2011 performance and risk governance total performance and risk governance total (in thousands) operating revenues $ 826,990 $ 123,151 $ 950,141 $ 781,355 $ 119,586 $ 900,941 cost of services 228,072 60,003 288,075 218,048 59,099 277,147 selling, general and administrative 199,221 33,962 233,183 183,294 29,678 212,972 restructuring (32 ) (19 ) (51 ) 1,951 1,643 3,594 amortization of intangible assets 50,017 13,281 63,298 52,414 13,391 65,805 depreciation expense 15,165 3,535 18,700 15,144 4,281 19,425 total operating expenses 492,443 110,762 603,205 470,851 108,092 578,943 operating income 334,547 12,389 346,936 310,504 11,494 321,998 other expense (income), net 57,527 58,585 income before provision for income taxes 289,409 263,413 provision for income taxes 105,171 89,959 net income $ 184,238 $ 173,454 performance and risk total operating revenues for the performance and risk business increased $45.6 million, or 5.8%, to $827.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily driven by higher revenues from our core benchmark indexes, growth within our risk management analytics products and revenues from the ipd acquisition made in november 2012, partially offset by lower revenues from portfolio management analytics products and energy and commodity analytics products. cost of services for the performance and risk business increased $10.0 million, or 4.6%, to $228.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. within cost of services, compensation and benefits expenses increased $11.5 million to $171.6 million primarily driven by higher costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, higher severance costs and higher post-retirement and other costs, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation costs. non-compensation expenses decreased $1.5 million to $56.5 million. sg&amp;a expense for the performance and risk business increased $15.9 million, or 8.7%, to $199.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. within sg&amp;a, compensation and benefits expenses increased $10.5 million to $134.4 million primarily as a result of higher costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, higher severance costs and higher post-retirement and other costs, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense. non-compensation expenses increased $5.4 million to $64.8 million. amortization of intangibles expense for the performance and risk business totaled $50.0 million and $52.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the decrease was the result of a portion of the intangible assets becoming fully amortized during the year ended december 31, 2012. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements for the performance and risk business totaled $15.2 million and $15.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. increased depreciation was primarily associated with the build-out and occupancy of our new corporate headquarters in new york, partially offset by the impact of eliminating certain assets associated with duplicative occupancy and certain information technology assets becoming fully depreciated. 77 table of contents governance total operating revenues for the governance business increased $3.6 million, or 3.0%, to $123.2 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. the increase was primarily driven by higher revenues from our compensation and advisory products and services. cost of services for the governance business increased $0.9 million to $60.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. within cost of services, compensation and benefits expenses increased $1.9 million to $44.5 million primarily as a result of higher costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, higher severance costs and higher post-retirement and other costs, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense. non-compensation expenses decreased $1.0 million to $15.5 million. sg&amp;a expense for the governance business increased $4.3 million to $34.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2012. within sg&amp;a, compensation and benefits expenses increased $3.2 million to $22.8 million primarily as a result of higher costs related to current staff and increased staffing levels, partially offset by lower stock-based compensation expense. non-compensation expenses increased $1.1 million to $11.2 million. amortization of intangibles expense for the governance business totaled $13.3 million and $13.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the decrease was the result of a portion of the intangible assets becoming fully amortized during the year ended december 31, 2012. depreciation and amortization of property, equipment, and leasehold improvements for the governance business totaled $3.5 million and $4.3 million for the years ended december 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. the decrease is primarily related to the impact of eliminating duplicative occupancy related assets and certain information technology assets becoming fully depreciated, partially offset by the increased depreciation associated with the buildout and occupancy of our new offices in rockville, maryland. liquidity and capital resources we require capital to fund ongoing operations, internal growth initiatives and acquisitions. our primary sources of liquidity are cash flows generated from our operations, existing cash and cash equivalents and credit capacity under our credit facilities. we intend to use these sources of liquidity to service our existing and future debt obligations and fund our working capital requirements, capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions and repurchases of our common stock. in connection with our business strategy, we regularly evaluate acquisition opportunities. we believe our liquidity, along with other financing alternatives, will provide the necessary capital to fund these transactions and achieve our planned growth. on june 1, 2010, we entered into the 2010 credit facility which was comprised of (i) the 2010 term loan and (ii) the 2010 revolving credit facility. on march 14, 2011, we completed the repricing of the 2010 credit facility pursuant to amendment no. 2. amendment no. 2 provided for the incurrence of the 2011 term loan. the proceeds of the 2011 term loan, together with cash on hand, were used to repay the remaining outstanding balance of the 2010 term loan in full. the 2011 term loan was scheduled to mature in march 2017. on may 4, 2012, we amended and restated our existing senior credit facilities by entering into the amended and restated credit facility, which consists of the 2012 term loan in an aggregate amount of $880.0 million and the $100.0 million 2012 revolving credit facility. the proceeds of the amended and restated credit facility, together with cash on hand, were used to repay the remaining outstanding principal of the then-existing 2011 term loan. the 2012 term loan and the 2012 revolving credit facility were scheduled to mature on may 4, 2017. in connection with the repayment of the 2011 term loan, we terminated our then-existing interest rate swaps and are not required to enter into new interest rate swaps to hedge our debt under the amended and restated credit facility. 78 table of contents in march 2013, we made a $15.0 million prepayment on the 2012 term loan. on december 12, 2013, we entered into amendment no. 1 to the amended and restated credit facility (the new amended and restated credit facility ), which extended the maturity of the amended and restated credit facility from may 2017 to december 2018. it also amended the amortization schedule of required debt payments under the 2012 term loan. we are required to repay $5.1 million in quarterly payments over the first two years and $10.1 million in quarterly payments over the next three years, with the exception of the final payment in december 2018, which will be $658.1 million (assuming no prepayments). the effective combined rate on our debt was 2.17% at december 31, 2013. the obligations under the new amended and restated credit facility are guaranteed by each of our material direct and indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, subject to limited exceptions. the obligations under the new amended and restated credit facility are secured by a lien on substantially all of the equity interests of our present and future material domestic subsidiaries, up to 65% of the equity interests of our first-tier foreign subsidiaries, and substantially all of our and our domestic subsidiaries present and future property and assets, subject to certain exceptions. the new amended and restated credit facility contains affirmative and restrictive covenants that, among other things, limit our ability and our existing or future subsidiaries abilities to: incur liens and further negative pledges; incur additional indebtedness or prepay, redeem or repurchase indebtedness; make loans or hold investments; merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; enter into acquisition transactions; make capital expenditures; issue disqualified capital stock; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or engage in stock repurchases, redemptions and other restricted payments; create new subsidiaries; permit certain restrictions affecting our subsidiaries; change the nature of our business, accounting policies or fiscal periods; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and amend our organizational documents or amend, modify or change the terms of certain agreements relating to our indebtedness. the new amended and restated credit facility also contains customary events of default, including those relating to non-payment, breach of representations, warranties or covenants, cross-default and cross-acceleration, bankruptcy and insolvency events, invalidity or impairment of loan documentation or collateral, change of control and customary erisa defaults. none of the restrictions above are expected to impact our ability to effectively operate the business. the new amended and restated credit facility also requires us and our subsidiaries to achieve financial and operating results sufficient to maintain compliance with the following financial ratios on a consolidated basis 79 table of contents through the termination of the new amended and restated credit facility: (1) the maximum consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the new amended and restated credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall not exceed 3.25:1.00 and (2) the minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the new amended and restated credit facility) measured quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis shall be at least 5.00:1.00. as of december 31, 2013, our consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the new amended and restated credit facility) was 1.69:1.00 and our consolidated interest coverage ratio (as defined in the new amended and restated credit facility) was 23.48:1.00. cash flows as of december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 (in thousands) cash and cash equivalents $ 358,434 $ 183,309 cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, and financing activities for the years ended december 31, 2013 december 31, 2012 december 31, 2011 (in thousands) net cash provided by operating activities $ 320,447 $ 347,075 $ 254,997 net cash provided by (used in) investing activities $ 4,121 $ (94,361 ) $ (90,611 ) net cash used in financing activities $ (145,848 ) $ (322,976 ) $ (177,994 ) effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents $ (3,595 ) $ 1,360 $ (3,604 ) net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents $ 175,125 $ (68,902 ) $ (17,212 ) cash and cash equivalents cash and cash equivalents were $358.4 million and $183.3 million as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. as of december 31, 2013 and 2012, $95.6 million and $83.5 million, respectively, of the cash and cash equivalents were held by foreign subsidiaries, which could be subject to u.s. federal income taxation on repatriation to the u.s. and some of which could be subject to local country taxes if repatriated to the u.s. in addition, repatriation of some foreign cash is further restricted by local laws. no short-term investments were held as of december 31, 2013. short-term investments were $70.9 million as of december 31, 2012. all of the short-term investments were held by u.s. corporations and were not subject to repatriation considerations at december 31, 2012. we believe that domestic cash flows from operations, together with existing cash and cash equivalents, will continue to be sufficient to fund our domestic operating activities and cash commitments for investing and financing activities, such as debt repayment schedules and material capital expenditures, for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. in addition, we expect existing foreign cash flows from operations, together with existing cash and cash equivalents, will continue to be sufficient to fund our foreign operating activities for at least the next 12 months and for the foreseeable future thereafter. 80 table of contents cash flows from operating activities cash flows from operating activities consist of net income adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in assets and liabilities. cash provided by operating activities was $320.4 million and $347.1 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the year-over-year decrease primarily reflects a change in the timing of collections of our accounts receivable relative to the prior year, partially offset by higher net income adjusted for certain non-cash items. our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for the payment of cash compensation expenses, office rent, technology costs, market data costs, interest expenses and income taxes. the payment of cash for compensation and benefits is historically at its highest level in the first quarter when we pay discretionary employee compensation related to the previous fiscal year. cash flows from investing activities cash provided by investing activities was $4.1 million and cash used in investing activities was $94.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the $98.5 million year-over-year increase in cash provided by investing activities primarily reflects a decrease in net cash outflows resulting from acquisitions during the year ended december 31, 2013 compared to the year ended december 31, 2012. in the year ended december 31, 2013 we began investing excess cash in money market funds and other similar cash equivalents rather than u.s. treasury securities and other short-term investments as we had in prior periods. cash flows from financing activities cash used in financing activities was $145.8 million and $323.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. the year-over-year decrease primarily reflects lower repayments on our debt, partially offset by higher purchases of treasury shares. contractual obligations our contractual obligations consist primarily of leases for office space, leases for equipment and other operating leases, obligations to vendors arising out of market data contracts and obligations arising from borrowings under the new amended and restated credit facility, as amended. the following summarizes our contractual obligations: for the years ended december 31, total 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 thereafter (in thousands) operating leases $ 326,178 32,806 30,918 30,445 28,390 27,308 176,311 vendor obligations 72,537 37,613 13,570 9,717 9,717 1,920 term loans (1) 890,855 37,662 37,223 56,869 55,990 703,111 total contractual obligations $ 1,289,570 108,081 81,711 97,031 94,097 732,339 176,311 (1) includes term loan principal plus expected interest payments based on the 2.17% interest rate at december 31, 2013. the obligations related to msci uncertain tax positions have been excluded from the table above because of the uncertainties surrounding the timing and final values of the settlement, if any. 81 table of contents off-balance sheet arrangements at december 31, 2013 and 2012, we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. recent accounting pronouncements in february 2013, the fasb issued accounting standards update no. 2013-02, reporting of amounts reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive income, or asu 2013-02. the amendments in this update require an entity to provide information about the amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income by component. in addition, an entity is required to present, either on the face of the income statement or in the notes thereto, significant amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income by the respective net income line item. this new guidance is to be applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after december 15, 2012. the adoption of asu 2013-02 did not have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. in july 2013, the fasb issued accounting standards update no. 2013-10, inclusion of the fed funds effective swap rate (or overnight index swap rate) as a benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes, or asu 2013-10. the amendments in this update permit the fed funds effective swap rate (ois) to be used as a u.s. benchmark interest rate for hedge accounting purposes under asc topic 815, derivatives and hedging, in addition to the interest rates on direct treasury obligations of the u.s. government and libor. the amendments also remove the restriction on using different benchmark rates for similar hedges. this new guidance is to be applied prospectively for qualifying new or redesignated hedging relationships entered into on or after july 17, 2013. the adoption of asu 2013-10 is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. in july 2013, the fasb issued accounting standards update no. 2013-11, presentation of an unrecognized tax benefit when a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward exists or asu 2013-11. the amendments in this update require that an unrecognized tax benefit, or a portion of an unrecognized tax benefit, be presented in the financial statements as a reduction to a deferred tax asset for a net operating loss carryforward, a similar tax loss, or a tax credit carryforward, except under a few limited circumstances. the amendments in this update do not require new recurring disclosures. this new guidance is to be applied prospectively for interim and annual periods beginning after december 15, 2013. the adoption of asu 2013-11 is not expected to have a material impact on the company consolidated financial statements. item 7a. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction 82 table of contents gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in non-operating other expense (income), net in our consolidated statement of income. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index-linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 14.4% and 14.8% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. while our fees for index-linked investment products are generally invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, 15.1% and 12.6%, respectively, of our operating revenues were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2013, 53.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 22.9% were in british pounds sterling and 13.0% were in japanese yen. for the year ended december 31, 2012, 58.3% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 21.8% were in japanese yen and 12.1% were in british pounds sterling. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 42.8% and 34.5% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, euros, swiss francs, indian rupees, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in value of the functional currency. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $2.4 million and $2.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively, and foreign currency exchange gains of $1.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2011. interest rate sensitivity we had unrestricted cash and cash equivalents totaling $358.4 million and $183.3 million at december 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. these amounts were held primarily in checking and money market accounts in the countries where we maintain banking relationships. the unrestricted cash and cash equivalents are held for working capital purposes. at december 2012, we had invested $70.9 million in debt securities with maturity dates ranging from 91 to 360 days from the date of purchase. we do not enter into investments for trading or speculative purposes. we believe we do not have any material exposure to changes in fair value as a result of changes in interest rates related to these positions. declines in interest rates, however, will reduce future interest income. borrowings under the 2012 term loan bear interest at a rate equal to the sum of libor and a margin of 2.00%, which margin will be subject to adjustment based on our leverage ratio. as of december 31, 2013, the 2012 term loan, as amended, bore interest at 2.17%. assuming an average of $802.4 million of variable rate debt outstanding, a hypothetical 100 basis point increase in libor for a one year period would result in $8.0 million of additional interest rate expense. 83 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights below. employees we had 2,926 employees as of december 31, 2014 and 2,580 employees not related to the iss operations as of december 31, 2013. as of december 31, 2014, 50.5% of our employees were located in emerging market centers compared to 46.2% of our employees, excluding those who left as part of the iss disposition, as of december 31, 2013. government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec requirements. msci esg research inc. is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. a subsidiary of msci esg research inc. must comply with the applicable australian financial services authority. msci registered in 2012 with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. available information our corporate headquarters are located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com . the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. you may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information about the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . we also make available free of charge, on or through our website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage ( http://ir.msci.com ). we also use our investor relations homepage and corporate twitter account (@msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you subscribe to the notification service available through our website by visiting the email alert subscription section at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm? . the contents of our website and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations would likely suffer. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements on page 1 for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index, real estate, esg and analytics products are dependent upon (and of little value without) updates from our data suppliers and most of our software products are dependent upon (and of little value without) continuing access to historical and current data. throughout our businesses, we utilize certain data provided by third party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. as of december 31, 2014, there were over 200 such data suppliers. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. many of our data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. for example, standard &amp; poor competes with us in index products, supplies index data that we distribute in our portfolio analytics software products and jointly developed and maintains gics and gics direct with us. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of provision of data by one or more of our significant data suppliers or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the information available for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. 17 table of contents our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, inc. and its affiliates ( blackrock ), and in our largest market, the united states. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide exchange traded funds ( etfs ), among other products. the fees etf providers charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these etf managers. moreover, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, and at least one large client has ceased using msci indexes as the basis for a significant number of its index funds in the past. in such instances, our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the ability of our licensees to cease using our indexes is generally true not just with respect to an index use as the basis of an etf but also with respect to its use as the basis of other financial products, including mutual funds and institutional funds. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients etfs and institutional funds based on the same indexes, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the use of the same index as the basis of the other type of product. if we are required to offer clients materially lower asset-based fee percentages with respect to investment products that generate fees based on the assets of such products or our largest clients cease to use our indexes, our revenues could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. clients that use our indexes as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the investment product assets. the value of an investment product assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. in addition, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in a product provider total expense ratio ( ter ). in those cases, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for 17.8% and 16.4% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 47.6% and 43.6% of the revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. accordingly, the value of assets in etfs can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time. for example, as of december 31, 2014, the month-end value of assets in etfs linked to msci equity indexes was $373.3 billion, which was 12.1% higher than the value of such assets as of december 31, 2013, and 1.2% lower than the value of such assets at september 30, 2014. 18 table of contents our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems, the internet and our information technology platform, and any failures, disruptions or instability may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, cyber-terrorism, natural disasters, power loss or computer viruses could impair our systems operations or interrupt their availability for extended periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our electronic delivery systems, the internet or our information technology platform, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services, may be materially adversely affected. for example, we have in recent years experienced denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. we have also experienced unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products after we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers and may experience such interruptions and delays in the future with respect to the migrations within existing data centers or to new data centers. in response to such issues, we have in the past and could again be required to provide service credits. we could also experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also incur increased operating expenses to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, and to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks. accordingly, any significant failures, disruptions or instability affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems or the internet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect client data, such as client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems, against unauthorized data access or disclosure. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation may result in claims against us by our clients or regulatory inquiry or censure, which could, individually or in the aggregate, damage our reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or data privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 19 table of contents we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indexes from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our equity indexes can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indexes. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have confidentiality policies in place and have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail or we are delayed in implementing such procedures as necessary with respect to a newly acquired business and an employee inadvertently discloses, or deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indexes, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our confidentiality policies or information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list etfs or other financial products based on our equity indexes only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our equity indexes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our specialized competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. larger competitors may offer price incentives to expand their market share, and may also consolidate with one another or form joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for a narrower pool of competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies resulting from an expanded suite of products and services. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many of the markets for our products, including for single-purpose product companies. the internet as a distribution channel has increasingly allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. see changes in government regulations, including implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks below. financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those resulting from weak or volatile economic conditions, may lead certain clients to reduce their overall spending on our products, including by seeking products at a lower cost than what we are able to provide, by consolidating their spending with fewer 20 table of contents providers or by self-sourcing certain of their informational needs. accordingly, competitive pressures may result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see our clients that pay us a fee based on assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above and part i, item 1. business our competition above. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of this industry and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. if, among other things, we fail to accurately predict or respond or adapt to evolving technologies and changing industry standards, if we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated, if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, or if competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are more competitive than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. for example, we have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and platforms and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also presents execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. also see if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. if we are unable to manage our operating costs as anticipated or our operating costs are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. we may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs. if operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. 21 table of contents a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 25.8% and 25.1% of our total revenues, respectively. our revenue growth depends on our ability to obtain new clients and achieve and sustain a high level of renewal rates with respect to our existing subscription base. failure of one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2014, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 10.6% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, 92.1% and 89.1%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock etfs that are based on our indexes. if one or more of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operation could be materially adversely affected. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development and marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and effectively manage transitions . failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain our current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products is dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, our management and other employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we believe our future success will also depend in large part upon our ability to attract, engage and retain highly skilled managerial, research, sales and marketing, information technology, software engineering and other technical personnel. competition for such personnel worldwide is intense, and there can be no assurance that we will be successful in attracting, enaging or retaining such personnel. if the compensation plans that we currently have in place, including our cash and equity incentive plans, do not adequately engage our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract, engage and retain the necessary qualified personnel, the quality of our products as well as our ability to support and retain our customers and achieve business objectives may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 22 table of contents our growth may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our growth effectively to increase revenue and profitability. our growth, including in emerging market locations, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the growth of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to grow organically or by way of acquisitions, management will be effective in attracting, training and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all of our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing growth. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. any failure to effectively manage growth or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways below, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise above, part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below and part i, item 1. business company history above. changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license our products or could impose additional costs on us. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets below. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by msci esg research inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. for example, a subsidiary of msci esg research inc. in australia must comply with applicable australian financial services authority requirements. we may also be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be materially adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. 23 table of contents dodd-frank act . as a result of the global financial crisis, the u.s. congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank act. the dodd-frank act could have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business and has and will continue to impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. although many of the effects of the dodd-frank act will be largely unknown until all of the regulations have been finalized and implemented, complying with its existing and future requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. additionally, following the global financial crisis, other jurisdictions outside the united states have adopted, or could in the future adopt, financial regulations affecting the financial services industry in those jurisdictions. data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to consumer privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing, licensing of historical data and business due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over consumer privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting some kinds of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting or disseminating certain types of data, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients needs. potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks. on september 18, 2013, the european commission issued its proposal for regulating indexes used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts and as benchmarks used to measure the performance of investment funds (com(2013) 641/3 and 2013/0314(cod)), which if adopted as proposed or with certain substantially similar provisions, could result in the regulation of many aspects of our equity and real estate index product lines, including, but not limited to, index development, calculation, dissemination, governance, maintenance and recordkeeping, as well as input data licensing, collection and dissemination. at this point, we do not know whether this proposal, or a similar proposal, will be adopted as regulation by the european union, or if it is adopted, when it will be adopted and have an effect on our equity and real estate index products. compliance with any regulation resulting from this proposal that leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer indexes in the european union, materially increases our costs of doing business, diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at a reasonable cost or at all could have a material adverse effect on our index business. on october 20, 2011, the european commission issued its proposal for mifid/mifir 2 (com (2011) 0652 and com (2011) 0656). agreement in principle has been reached among the european commission, parliament and council, and we expect that the regulation when adopted and implemented will, among other things, mandate that, where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark will be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues may license the benchmark and receive relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark for the purposes of clearing and trading. it is also expected that access to such information will have to be granted by the benchmark owner within three months of the request and on the same basis as it is provided to other trading venues unless a different basis can be objectively justified. because final guidance on the relevant technical standards has not yet been issued by esma, it is difficult to predict its full effect on our index business. in the event that compliance with this regulation leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, materially increases our cost of doing business, materially diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at a reasonable cost or at all, it could have a material adverse effect on our index business. 24 table of contents on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en), which are updated from time to time by esma ( guidelines ). the guidelines limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. the guidelines became effective as of february 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched ucits funds. they became effective for all ucits funds on february 17, 2014. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. to the extent that esma issues new guidance or different or new interpretations with respect to the guidelines, complying with such guidance could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a material negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indexes as the basis of etfs and ucits. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe have adopted, and others could adopt, similar concepts, proposals or regulations. on june 6, 2013, esma published its final report setting out principles for benchmark-setting processes in the eu (esma/2013/659) ( esma principles ). the esma principles are intended to provide a general framework covering all stages of the benchmark setting process including data submission, administration, calculation, publication, the use of benchmarks and the continuity of benchmarks. the esma principles are non-binding, but esma intends for them to help transition to a potential european union framework for benchmarks, and esma will review the esma principles application 18 months after their initial publication. to the extent that esma determines that the esma principles include requirements for the benchmark administrators that are different from the iosco principles (defined below) or to the extent that esma review of the industry implementation of the esma principles results in changes and complying with any such additional requirements or changes to the esma principles leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, materially increases our cost of doing business, materially diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at reasonable cost or at all, there could be a material adverse effect on our index business. on july 17, 2013, the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) published its final report on principles for financial benchmarks ( iosco principles ). the iosco principles cover conflicts of interest, benchmark quality and integrity, methodology requirements, procedures related to handling complaints, documentation requirements and audit reviews. the iosco principles require benchmark administrators to publicly disclose whether they comply with the iosco principles within 12 months of their initial publication. iosco will review the extent to which the iosco principles have been implemented within 18 months of publication. on july 16, 2014, we announced our implementation of the iosco principles. to the extent that iosco review of industry members implementation of the iosco principles results in changes whereby complying with iosco principles leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, materially increases our cost of doing business, materially diminishes our intellectual property rights, materially impacts our contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causes our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at reasonable cost or at all, there could be a material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. similarly, a number of our clients have obtained regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that they manage. additionally, in august 2011, blackrock announced that it was seeking regulatory clearance to create 25 table of contents indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the united states. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci, barra, fea, investorforce, ipd and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the united states and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the united states and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 23 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have four u.s. patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we may not be able to determine with certainty whether misappropriation has occurred. 26 table of contents likewise, we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license and other agreements non-disclosure obligations and the availability of remedies to us in the event of a breach may vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under online licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. see we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below for risks associated with the use of intellectual property obtained from third parties. third-party litigation there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the united states and germany, in the last few years regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on a publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including the governing law, the amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results of these cases are favorable to the index owner, as in a recent case in the illinois state courts involving the international securities exchange and its proposed use of the dow jones industrial average and the s&amp;p 500 index. in other instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner, as in a 2009 case in german federal court ruling that the owner of an index trademark who publishes the index in a manner generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in options issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and its use does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of certain technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial conditions or results of operations. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have increasingly pursued or may consider pursuing patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model, software application or other relevant product or process, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. 27 table of contents responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. if any of these risks materialize, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the terms of many open source code licenses, however, are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) proprietary code that links to certain open source code modules, to re-engineer our products or systems or to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely basis. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third-party software and data has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased software or data acquisition costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. products we develop or license, including our indexes, may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new methodologies and products, and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product or publish a methodology, we might have to delay the product or index release for an extended period of time while 28 table of contents we address the problem. we may not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors, and in certain cases it may be impracticable to correct such errors. if undetected errors exist in our products or methodologies, or if our products fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations and/or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy or mitigate such errors. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. also see we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products to support our clients investment processes below. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities as well as the measurement of the performance of our clients equity investments against equity benchmarks. if investment in equity markets declines, if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, or if they discontinue the use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. volatility in equity markets over an extended period or other factors may lead to an overall decline in the viability of such markets, which could reduce new business opportunities for us and our clients. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for our equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our equity indexes could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our primary commercial model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at a specified location and by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services during that annual period. for most of our products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, more free or relatively inexpensive information has become available, particularly through the internet, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions can also result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. see changes in government regulations, including implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks above. 29 table of contents our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets. unfavorable changes in global or domestic financial market conditions may negatively impact the performance and financial viability of our clients, the majority of which are in the financial services industry. as a result, adverse financial market conditions could result in reduced demand for our products and services from our clients due to, among other things: the closure or consolidation of our clients; the inability of our customers to pay for products or services, including delayed payment or underpayment; prolonged selling and renewal cycles; and increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. if we are unable to successfully identify, execute and realize synergies from acquisitions, or if we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our growth strategy, we seek to be a disciplined acquirer, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where, as in the case of the ipd acquisition, the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and which may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of your common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition related activity within a limited period of time, the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see part i, item 1. business company history above. 30 table of contents our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant portion of our revenues from our index-linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenues and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in non-operating other expense (income), net in our consolidated statement of income. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 17.8% and 16.4% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a large majority of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, 14.3% and 15.1%, respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues attributable to income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2014, 54.5% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 23.8% were in british pounds sterling and 12.6% were in japanese yen. for the year ended december 31, 2013, 53.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 22.9% were in british pounds sterling and 13.0% were in japanese yen. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 43.1% and 42.8% of our total operating expenses, including operating expenses in income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, euros, swiss francs, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the united states. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss resulted from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. as a result of these positions, we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $3.0 million and $2.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. 31 table of contents to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates will correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products to support our clients investment processes. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which relate to, in the aggregate, trillions of dollars in assets. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that our clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts based on what may be alleged to be even a small error in certain of our products. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or failure to provide services under our client contracts. however, these provisions do not always eliminate liability entirely and may have certain exceptions that could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. claims against us, even if their outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation or pose a significant disruption to our normal business operations. in addition, the duration or outcome of such claims and lawsuits is difficult if not impossible to predict, which could further exacerbate the adverse effect they may have on our business operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. on november 20, 2014, we completed a private offering of $800.0 million in aggregate principal amount of 5.250% senior notes due 2024 (the notes ) and entered into a new $200.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (our 2014 revolving credit agreement ). we used the net proceeds from the offering of the notes, together with cash on hand, to prepay in full the $794.8 million of outstanding indebtedness under our amended and restated senior secured term loan facility. see part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for additional information regarding our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the notes. as of december 31, 2014, we had $800.0 million of outstanding indebtedness under the notes and $200.0 million of undrawn aggregate commitments under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, which includes $25.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit. any borrowings under our 2014 revolving credit agreement may be voluntarily prepaid and reborrowed. however, the undrawn portion of the aggregate commitments is subject to an unused commitment fee. the notes and our 2014 revolving credit agreement are fully and unconditionally, and jointly and severally, guaranteed by our direct or indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that account for more than 5% of our and our subsidiaries consolidated assets, other than certain excluded subsidiaries (the subsidiary guarantors ). amounts due under our 2014 revolving credit agreement are our and the subsidiary guarantors senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with the notes and any of our other unsecured, unsubordinated debt, senior to any of our subordinated debt and effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture dated as of november 20, 32 table of contents 2014 (the indenture governing our notes ) among us, each of the subsidiary guarantors, and wells fargo bank, national association, as trustee, contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing and future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. in addition, the indenture governing our notes restricts our non-guarantor subsidiaries ability to create, assume, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness without such non-guarantor subsidiaries guaranteeing the notes on a pari passu basis. our 2014 revolving credit agreement also requires us to comply with the following two financial ratio maintenance covenants, which are tested at least quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis: (i) our maximum consolidated leverage ratio must not exceed 3.75:1.00 and (ii) our minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio must be at least 4.00:1.00. under the terms of our 2014 revolving credit agreement, certain increases (or decreases) in our consolidated leverage ratio may result in an increase (or decrease) in the fees applicable to (i) outstanding borrowings under such facility and (ii) undrawn commitments under such facility, in each case, in a predetermined percentage amount (the applicable margin ). if we experience, as of a scheduled quarterly test date, an increase in our consolidated leverage ratio above a threshold amount specified in our 2014 revolving credit agreement, the interest rates on our outstanding borrowings and/or the fee rate on our unused commitments will rise by the applicable margin. consequently, any increase in our consolidated leverage ratio could result in higher debt service costs under such facility, even if we do not have borrowings outstanding under such facility. in addition, our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes contain certain affirmative covenants. any of these restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financings and to engage in business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness. this could further exacerbate the risks described above. we may need to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes restrict, but do not completely prohibit, us from doing so. our 2014 revolving credit agreement provides for an incremental facility that allows us to increase aggregate commitments by an additional $200.0 million under certain circumstances. in addition, the indenture governing our notes allows us to issue additional notes under certain circumstances. accordingly, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time, under our existing debt agreements and otherwise, to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could increase. specifically, a high level of indebtedness could, among other things: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations or proceeds of any equity issuance or additional debt incurrence to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, development activity, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the markets in which we operate; make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our 2014 revolving credit agreement are at variable rates; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes, such as raising the funds necessary to repurchase all the notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership; 33 table of contents increase our interest expense; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes, there could be a default under the terms of these debt agreements. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. as a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests, and any such default under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. additionally, if certain events of default occur, continue or remain uncured under our debt agreements, we are required to repurchase, redeem, repay or prepay, as the case may be, the debt under such agreement prior to maturity and/or such debt could become accelerated and immediately due and payable. for example, upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership, the holders of the notes have the right to compel us to repurchase all or part of the notes in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of the aggregate principal amount to be repurchased plus accrued interest. additionally, the holders of the notes may, in connection with certain events of default, accelerate the principal amount of the notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and declare the same to be due and payable after giving the required notice. likewise, under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, the lenders may, in connection with certain events of default, elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable. our debt agreements also contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, pursuant to which a default is deemed to have occurred under such agreement if a default or acceleration occurs under another debt agreement. for example, our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes contain cross-default provisions relating to nonpayment by us or any of our subsidiaries in connection with debt aggregating $50.0 million or more (subject to certain cure periods). if any of the above events should occur, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness. additionally, we may not be able to amend our debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. however, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. if we are unable to generate a sufficient amount of cash, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. however, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. 34 table of contents absent sufficient cash flow and the ability to refinance, we could also be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. however, the terms of our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes limit our and our subsidiaries ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. accordingly, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations on our indebtedness. increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of short-term and long-term funding and access to capital, fluctuations in the levels of interest rates and inflation or a downgrade of our credit rating, could materially adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses and results. at december 31, 2014, we had no borrowings outstanding under our 2014 revolving credit agreement and all of our outstanding long-term debt was subject to a fixed interest rate. adverse conditions in the domestic and global financial markets could, however, increase our costs for additional financing and negatively affect our ability to refinance, repurchase, redeem, repay or prepay, as the case may be, our debt at or prior to maturity, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. our access to capital is also impacted by changes in interest rates and inflation, which could restrict the availability to us of short-term and long-term funding. recent interest rates in the united states have been at historically low levels, and any increase in these rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our funds available for operations and other purposes with respect to newly incurred debt, or borrowings, if any, under our 2014 revolving credit agreement. additionally, any downgrades to our credit rating or outlook may increase the cost, and reduce the availability, of financing. if we borrow under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, such indebtedness would bear interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) for deposits of u.s. dollars. libor tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market. increases in the interest rate generally, and particularly when coupled with any significant variable rate indebtedness, could materially adversely impact our interest expenses. to the extent we borrow under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, we are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge such indebtedness. if we decide not to enter into hedges on such indebtedness, our interest expense on such indebtedness will fluctuate based on libor or other variable interest rates. consequently, we may have difficulties servicing such unhedged indebtedness and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be materially adversely affected. if we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivative instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to seamlessly provide clients with products and customer service. we must protect our equipment and the information stored in our computer-based networks and databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, internet failures, computer viruses, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks 35 table of contents on sites where we are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible physical office facilities and hardware for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there can be no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. additionally, we may incur significant data recovery costs following any such event, and the scope of recovery will depend on, among other things, the effectiveness of our business continuity plans in mitigating the risks associated with the particular event that has occurred. such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of developing and implementing our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls, customs duties, sanctions compliance, tax penalties, levies or assessments and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability in certain of the countries or regions in which we conduct operations. in connection with the acquisitions of riskmetrics and ipd, we acquired new offices in 10 non-u.s. locations. since 2010, we have also opened offices in santiago, seoul, taipei and shanghai. we intend to further grow our presence in emerging market locations. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the united states and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the united states, we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. for example, the continued success of ipd products is dependent on understanding local real estate markets and maintaining relationships with local real estate industry bodies in the jurisdictions in which ipd operates. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and esg and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the united states. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. 36 table of contents we may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ) and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects and the public generally, which could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisition and or other combinations. see also any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above, we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our equity indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above and if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation above. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. from time to time, we also implement changes to our global corporate structure. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. such changes include, but are not limited to, proposed legislation to reform u.s. taxation of international business activities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. 37 table of contents we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $1,998.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2014. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. the obligations associated with being a public company require significant resources and management attention. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations promulgated by the sec and the new york stock exchange. for example, the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, requires that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and financial conditions and the sarbanes oxley act of 2002 requires, among other things, that we establish and maintain effective internal controls and procedures for financial reporting. our efforts to comply with these rules and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management time from other business activities. see changes in government regulations, including implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. in connection with our ipo and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate in the future for a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. one possible outcome of such fluctuation could be a decline in the value of your investment. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in operating margins due to variability in revenues from licensing our equity indexes as the basis of etfs; 38 table of contents loss of key clients (see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above); changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; changes in our dividend policy or stock repurchase program; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; changes in or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory developments in the united states, foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our ipo and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plans. as of december 31, 2014, 112,072,469 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of december 31, 2014, we had issued 6,377,840 and 159,194 shares of common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent 39 table of contents directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of december 31, 2014, we had issued 3,667,188 shares of common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2014, we had issued 2,023,798 shares of common stock under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan, which terminated on june 30, 2012. see note 10, share based compensation deferred stock awards and stock option awards of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by a two-thirds vote of the shares not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of the company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. 40 table of contents we may not be able to maintain payments of dividends at current levels and the failure to do so may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. on september 17, 2014, our board of directors approved a plan to initiate a regular quarterly cash dividend to our shareholders. we paid our first quarterly dividend on october 31, 2014 and our board of directors declared our second quarterly dividend on february 3, 3015, which is to be paid on march 13, 2015 to shareholders of record as of the close of trading on february 20, 2015, in each case, in an amount of $0.18 per share of common stock. although we plan to continue to pay such regular quarterly dividends at an anticipated initial aggregate annual dividend rate of $0.72 per share, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so or that we will achieve an annual dividend rate in any particular amount. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the level of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. our cash dividend policy is based upon our board of directors assessment of our financial condition and the general business environment in which we operate at the time of declaration. any future declaration and payment of cash dividends to our shareholders depends on the assessment of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and a change in any one or more factors could affect our dividend policy. these factors include: our results of operations and liquidity; future prospects for earnings and cash flows; our available cash on hand and anticipated cash needs; the level and timing of capital expenditures, principal repayments and other capital needs; our ability to comply with current or future financial and negative covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments (including the incurrence covenants contained in our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indenture governing our notes); tax treatment of dividends in the united states; legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and other provisions of law in any applicable jurisdiction; and any other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant in light of the prevailing conditions at the time of such assessment. as a result, we can give no assurance that we will in the future choose or be able to declare or pay a cash dividend, maintain our current level of dividends or increase them over time. our failure to declare or pay a dividend, a reduction in the level of such dividend or the discontinuance of such dividend could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the share repurchase programs approved by our board of directors may not result in enhanced value to shareholders and may negatively affect our share price. on february 4, 2014, our board of directors approved a stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $300.0 million worth of shares of our common stock, which was subsequently increased to $850.0 million (the 2014 repurchase program ). share repurchases made pursuant to the 2014 repurchase program may take place through december 31, 2016 in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time based on market and other conditions. pursuant to the 2014 repurchase program, on september 18, 2014, we entered into a $300.0 million accelerated share repurchase ( asr ) agreement with goldman sachs &amp; co. ( gs&amp;co. ) under which, on september 19, 2014, we paid gs&amp;co. $300.0 million in cash and received approximately 4.5 million shares of our common stock. the total number of shares to be repurchased will be based primarily on an arithmetic average of the volume-weighted average prices of our common stock on each trading day during the repurchase period. this average price will be capped such that only under limited circumstances will we be required to deliver shares or pay cash at settlement. we may receive from gs&amp;co. additional shares at or prior to maturity of this asr agreement in may 2015. the 2014 repurchase program carries risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, that the authorized purchases will not be completed within the expected timing or will not be made at the best possible price. additionally, we are permitted to, and may, discontinue the 2014 repurchase program at any time, including, without limitation, upon determining that we have insufficient cash flows to continue to execute such program. any such discontinuation or inability to continue to execute the 2014 repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will pursue or be successful in completing the execution of the remaining $550.0 million authorized under the 2014 repurchase program or any future repurchase program. additionally, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause the market price 41 table of contents of our common stock to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our shares. as a result, any repurchase program may not ultimately result in enhanced value to our shareholders and may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 75 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. a significant percentage of our revenues from our index-linked investment products are based on fees earned on the value of assets invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. for all operations outside the united states where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the 75 table of contents functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in non-operating other expense (income), net in our consolidated statement of income. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 17.8% and 16.4% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, a significant percentage of which are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, 14.3% and 15.1%, respectively, of our total revenues, including revenues attributable to income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, were invoiced in currencies other than u.s. dollars. for the year ended december 31, 2014, 54.5% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 23.8% were in british pounds sterling and 12.6% were in japanese yen. for the year ended december 31, 2013, 53.9% of our foreign currency revenues were in euros, 22.9% were in british pounds sterling and 13.0% were in japanese yen. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 43.1% and 42.8% of our operating expenses, including operating expense attributable to income from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended december 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, euros, swiss francs, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the united states. we have certain assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, a gain or loss results from the change in value of the functional currency. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with intercompany loans that are denominated in certain foreign currencies. as a result of these positions, we recognized foreign currency exchange losses of $3.0 million, $2.4 million and $2.6 million for the years ended december 31, 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively.risk factors 19 risk factors legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights below. company history the following is a summary of the company history since its inception: msci timeline 1969 msci began as a pioneer in developing the market for global equity indexes. we began licensing our first equity index products in 1969. 1998 we were incorporated in 1998 and, until we became a public company in november 2007, our only two shareholders were morgan stanley and capital group international. 2004 in june 2004, we acquired barra, llc (formerly barra, inc., barra ), a provider of portfolio risk analytics tools that launched its first risk analytics products in 1975. this broadened our product range beyond index products. 2007 in november 2007, we completed our initial public offering. simultaneously, we reclassified our outstanding common stock into class a and class b shares. 2008 in april 2008, capital group international divested its ownership position. 2009 in may 2009, morgan stanley divested its ownership position and we became a fully independent, stand-alone public company. 2010 in june 2010, we acquired riskmetrics group, inc. ( riskmetrics ), a leading provider of risk management and governance products and services. in addition to this core product line, riskmetrics owned institutional shareholder services inc. ( iss ), a pioneer in the development of policy-based proxy voting recommendations. riskmetrics also owned the center for financial research and analysis ( cfra ), innovest strategic value advisors, inc. ( innovest ) and kld research and analytics ( kld research ). innovest and kld research are now known as msci esg research inc. ( msci esg research ). in july 2010, we acquired measurisk, llc ( measurisk ), a provider of risk transparency and risk measurement tools for hedge fund investors. with our clients demanding increasing levels of transparency from their hedge fund managers, this acquisition helped us develop a broad platform and set the standard for analyzing and reporting hedge fund risk. measurisk products are now part of our hedge fund risk transparency offerings. 2012 in november 2012, we acquired real estate performance measurement group ipd group limited ( ipd ). the acquisition of ipd expanded msci multi-asset class offerings by facilitating the integration of private real estate assets into our models, as well as adding a family of real estate indexes to msci suite of equity indexes. 2013 in january 2013, we acquired investor force holdings, inc. ( investorforce ), a leading provider of performance reporting tools to the institutional investment community in the u.s. the investorforce offering enables us to provide consultants with integrated, daily monitoring, analysis of and reporting on institutional assets. in march 2013, we completed the sale of the cfra product line. 15 table of contents 2014 in april 2014, we completed the sale of iss. in august 2014, we acquired governance holdings co. ( gmi ratings ), a provider of corporate governance research and ratings to institutional investors, banks, insurers, auditors, regulators and corporations seeking to incorporate esg factors into risk assessment and decision-making. this acquisition enhanced our existing platform of esg research and tools, allowing us to deliver a more comprehensive suite of esg products and services to our clients. 2015 in october 2015, we acquired all of the assets of insignis, inc. ( insignis ), a leading provider of daily automated collection, aggregation and management of financial data. we believe this acquisition will help us further automate the collection and integration of data across our risk and performance management platforms. for more information about our acquisitions and dispositions, see note 3, dispositions and discontinued operations, and note 12, acquisitions, of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. employees we had 2,754 and 2,926 employees as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. as of december 31, 2015 and 2014, 52.8% and 50.5% of our employees, respectively, were located in emerging market centers. government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec requirements. msci esg research is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. msci registered in 2012 with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. see part i, item 1a. risk factors changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations . executive officers name age position henry a. fernandez 57 chairman, chief executive officer and president robert qutub 54 chief financial officer scott a. crum 59 chief human resources officer richard j. napolitano 49 principal accounting officer and global controller c.d. baer pettit 51 chief operating officer laurent seyer 51 global head of client coverage diana h. tidd 46 head of index peter j. zangari 48 head of analytics henry a. fernandez mr. fernandez has served as the chairman since october 2007 and as the chief executive officer ( ceo ), president and a director since 1998. before leading msci transition to becoming a fully independent, standalone public company in 2009, he was a managing director at morgan stanley, where he worked in emerging markets product strategy, equity derivative sales and trading, mergers and acquisitions, worldwide corporate finance and mortgage finance for u.s. financial institutions. mr. fernandez worked for morgan stanley from 1983 to 1991 and from 1994 to 2009. mr. fernandez serves on the boards of georgetown university, the hoover institution at stanford university, the foreign policy association, memorial sloan-kettering cancer 16 table of contents center, catholic charities of the archdiocese of new york and the american nicaraguan foundation. mr. fernandez is the former chair of the advisory council of the stanford university graduate school of business. he holds a bachelor of arts in economics from georgetown university, an m.b.a. from the stanford university graduate school of business and pursued doctoral studies in economics at princeton university. robert qutub mr. qutub has served as the chief financial officer (the cfo ) since august 2012. prior to joining msci, mr. qutub worked for bank of america from 1994 to 2012 in several senior finance positions, most recently as the cfo of consumer and business banking. during his career at bank of america, mr. qutub also served as the cfo of other major segments, including global banking and markets and global wealth investment management. prior to joining bank of america, he was a manager in the financial services group for pricewaterhousecoopers llp from 1988 to 1994. mr. qutub served in the u.s. marine corps on active duty from 1981 to 1984. since june 2014, mr. qutub has been a member of the board of directors and finance and audit committee of the usaa federal savings bank. mr. qutub earned a bachelor of science in accounting from the university of north carolina charlotte. he is also a member of the american institute of certified public accountants. as previously announced, mr. qutub will retire from msci on the earlier of may 6, 2016 and the effective date of the appointment of his successor. scott a. crum mr. crum has served as the chief human resources officer since april 2014. prior to joining msci, mr. crum served as head of global human resources for four publicly traded companies. mr. crum worked for avon products, inc. as senior vice president of human resources and chief people officer from september 2012 to may 2013. from july 2010 to june 2012, mr. crum served as senior vice president and chief people officer of motorola mobility holdings, inc., one of two publicly traded companies formally created when motorola inc. split in january 2011. prior to that, he served as the senior vice president and director of human resources of itt corporation from september 2002 to july 2010 and head of administration and employee relations at general instruments corp. from 1997 to 2000. mr. crum holds a bachelor of business administration with a concentration in industrial relations from southern methodist university. richard j. napolitano mr. napolitano has served as the principal accounting officer since february 2014 and global controller since june 2011. prior to joining msci, mr. napolitano worked at morgan stanley from 2005 to 2011, j.p. morgan chase from 1996 to 2005 and ernst &amp; young from 1988 to 1996. at these firms, he held various positions including, among others, business unit or product chief financial officer or controller, head of external reporting and accounting policies and audit senior manager. mr. napolitano earned his bachelor of science in accounting and an m.b.a. in finance from the leonard n. stern school of business at new york university. he is also a member of the american institute of certified public accountants. c.d. baer pettit mr. pettit has served as the chief operating officer since september 2015. as such, mr. pettit oversees the firm operations, technology and product lines and reports directly to the chief executive officer. before taking on his current role, mr. pettit served as head of the product group from february 2015 to september 2015, head of client coverage from 2001 to august 2012, head of marketing from 2005 to august 2012 and head of index products from september 2011 to september 2015. prior to joining msci, mr. pettit worked for bloomberg l.p. from 1992 to 1999, most recently as deputy head of european sales. he holds a master of arts degree in history from cambridge university and a master of science degree from the school of foreign service at georgetown university. 17 table of contents laurent seyer mr. seyer has served as the global head of client coverage since december 2014. prior to joining msci, mr. seyer worked for axa investment managers llc in paris, most recently as global head of the client group. prior to that, he spent 24 years at societe generale in a number of leadership positions, including as ceo of lyxor asset management from 2006 to 2012, and held senior roles in equity derivatives and structured product sales, mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance, and corporate development and business strategy. mr. seyer graduated from institut d etudes politiques, where he studied law and economics. diana h. tidd ms. tidd has served as the head of index since february 2016 when her role was expanded from head of equity index products, a role she had held since october 2015. in such capacity, she is responsible for all aspects of product management and business strategy for the msci indexes. during her tenure at msci, ms. tidd has served in a variety of roles, including head of americas client coverage for six years. prior to joining msci in 1999, ms. tidd worked at brown brothers harriman &amp; co. in boston for five years where she had roles in the risk and europe teams, before becoming head of the asia team in the global custody division. she started her career in the trust and estates division of the private bank at bankers trust co. ms. tidd serves on the board of women in etfs, as well as wave, west africa village education. ms. tidd graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in political science from colgate university and received a master degree in latin american studies from stanford university. peter j. zangari mr. zangari has served as the head of analytics since february 2015, which includes the formerly separately managed risk management analytics product line and portfolio management analytics product line, the latter of which mr. zangari had served as the head of since august 2011. prior to joining msci, mr. zangari held progressively senior-level positions at goldman sachs since 1998, most recently as the head of risk and a member of the leadership team for the quantitative investment strategies ( qis ) business of goldman sachs asset management ( gsam ). prior to joining qis, mr. zangari was responsible for building out and managing gsam proprietary equity risk and attribution platform. mr. zangari has a bachelor of arts degree in economics from fordham university and a phd in economics, with a specialization in applied econometrics and computational statistics, from rutgers university. available information our corporate headquarters are located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com . the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. you may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information about the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . we also make available free of charge, on or through our website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage ( http://ir.msci.com ). we also use our investor relations homepage and corporate twitter account (@msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. 18 table of contents accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the email alert subscription section of our investor relations homepage at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm? . the contents of our website, including our investor relations homepage, and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements on page 1 for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business if we lose key outside suppliers of data and products or if the data or products of these suppliers have errors or are delayed, we may not be able to provide our clients with the information and products they desire. our ability to produce our products and develop new products is dependent upon the products of other suppliers, including certain data, software and service suppliers. our index, analytics, real estate, and esg products are dependent upon and of little value without updates from our data suppliers. similarly, most of our software products are dependent upon and of little value without continuing access to historical and current data. throughout our businesses, we utilize certain data provided by third party data sources in a variety of ways, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. as of december 31, 2015, there were over 200 such data suppliers. if the data from our suppliers has errors, is delayed, has design defects, is unavailable on acceptable terms or is not available at all, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. many of our data suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. for example, standard &amp; poor competes with us in index products, supplies index data that we distribute in our portfolio analytics software products and jointly developed and maintains gics and gics direct with us. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of provision of data by one or more of our significant data suppliers or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider information could decrease the information available for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. some data suppliers have sought and others may seek to increase licensing fees for providing their content to us. if we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these data suppliers or find alternative 19 table of contents sources of equivalent content, we may be required to reduce our profit margins or experience a reduction in our market share. our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, inc. and its affiliates ( blackrock ), and in our largest market, the u.s. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages. additionally, competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide exchange traded funds ( etfs ), among other products. the fees etf providers charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these etf managers. moreover, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or could change the index to a non-msci index, and at least one large client has ceased using msci indexes as the basis for a significant number of its index funds in the past. in such instances, our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the ability of our licensees to cease using our indexes is generally true not just with respect to an index use as the basis of an etf but also with respect to its use as the basis of other financial products, including mutual funds and institutional funds. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients etfs and institutional funds based on the same indexes, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the use of the same index as the basis of the other type of product. if we are required to offer clients materially lower asset-based fee percentages with respect to investment products that generate fees based on the assets of such products or our largest clients cease to use our indexes, our revenues could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. clients that use our indexes as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the value of the investment product assets. the value of an investment product assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and cash inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. in addition, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in a product provider total expense ratio ( ter ). in those cases, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for 18.4% and 17.8% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 48.3% and 47.6% of the revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. accordingly, the value of assets linked to etfs can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time. see our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our current and potential future clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets below. 20 table of contents our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems, the internet and our information technology platform, and any failures, disruptions or instability may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering or hacking, human error, cyber-terrorism, natural disasters, power loss or computer viruses could impair our systems operations or interrupt their availability for extended periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our electronic delivery systems, the internet or our information technology platform, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services or to whom we distribute index and constituent data on a real time basis that is used to manage funds that replicate msci indexes, may be materially adversely affected. for example, we have in recent years experienced denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future. we have also experienced unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products after we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers and may experience such interruptions and delays in the future with respect to the migrations within existing data centers or to new data centers. in response to such issues, we have in the past and could again be required to provide service credits. we could also experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also incur increased operating expenses to repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, and to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks. accordingly, any significant failures, disruptions or instability affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems or the internet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, failures, or breaches. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, software applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect client data that we receive in the ordinary course of business, including sensitive and confidential client data such as material non-public information and client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems, against unauthorized data access or disclosure. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation may result in claims against us by our clients or regulatory inquiry or censure, which could, individually or in the aggregate, damage our reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or data privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations data privacy legislation below. 21 table of contents we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indexes from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our equity indexes can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indexes. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have confidentiality policies in place and have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail or we are delayed in implementing such procedures as necessary with respect to a newly acquired business and an employee inadvertently discloses, or deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indexes, our reputation may suffer. clients loss of trust and confidence in our confidentiality policies or information barrier policies and procedures could lead to a negative reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list etfs or other financial products based on our equity indexes only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have reasonable information barrier procedures in place to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our equity indexes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our specialized competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. larger competitors may offer price incentives to expand their market share, and may also consolidate with one another or form joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for a narrower pool of competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies resulting from an expanded suite of products and services. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many of the markets for our products, including for single-purpose product companies. recent developments including advances in public cloud computing and the increase in open source as well as proprietary software in specific areas, such as pricing, high volume computing, orchestration layers for services, and visualization, have increasingly allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, more broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. see increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations below. 22 table of contents financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those resulting from weak or volatile economic conditions, may lead certain clients to reduce their overall spending on our products, including by seeking products at a lower cost than what we are able to provide, by consolidating their spending with fewer providers or by self-sourcing certain of their informational needs. accordingly, competitive pressures may result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above and part i, item 1. business our competition above. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and product enhancements and effectively manage transitions and product integrations. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of this industry and the impact of technological change on our products, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration of products within msci and with third-party platforms, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. if, among other things, we fail to accurately predict or respond or adapt to evolving technologies and changing industry standards, if we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients or cannot be integrated with third-party platforms, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated, if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, or if competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are more competitive than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. for example, we have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and platforms and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also present execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. if we are unable to manage our operating costs as anticipated or our operating costs are higher than expected, our operating results may fluctuate significantly. we may experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs. if operating costs exceed our expectations and cannot be adjusted accordingly, our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. 23 table of contents a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 26.0% and 25.8% of our total revenues, respectively. our revenue growth depends on our ability to obtain new clients and achieve and sustain a high level of renewal rates with respect to our existing subscription base. failure of one or more of these subscription objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2015, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 10.3% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, 93.0% and 92.1%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock etfs that are based on our indexes. if one or more of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. among other things, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development and marketing efforts as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new products and product enhancements and effectively manage transitions and product integrations . failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, we believe that the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, our management and other employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. during 2015 and 2016, our board of directors adopted significant changes to the company compensation approach and philosophy, including the implementation of a more formulaic approach to the payment of annual cash incentive compensation based on the achievement of certain financial metrics and long-term equity incentive compensation based on the achievement of share-based performance targets for certain awards to executive officers and managing directors. if our cash and equity incentive plans, including our new cash bonus plan and long-term equity incentive compensation program, do not adequately engage our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract, engage and retain the necessary qualified personnel, the quality of our products and services as well as our ability to support and retain our customers and achieve business objectives may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 24 table of contents our expansion may place significant strain on our management and other resources. we must plan and manage our expansion effectively to increase revenue and profitability. our expansion in recent years, including in emerging market locations, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the expansion of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if we continue to expand organically or by way of acquisitions, our management will be effective in attracting, engaging and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all of our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing expansion. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. any failure to effectively manage expansion or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses in many ways below, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above, part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below and part i, item 1. business company history above. changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules or regulations in various jurisdictions, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license our products or could impose additional costs on us. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. likewise, to the extent that our clients become bound by certain laws, rules or regulations, we may incur higher costs in connection with modifying our products or processes at their request even in instances where we are not directly legally bound. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets below. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by msci esg research inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. dodd-frank act and other financial regulations . as a result of the global financial crisis, the u.s. congress undertook major financial reform which led to the enactment on july 21, 2010 of the dodd-frank act. the dodd-frank act could have a significant impact on many aspects of the way in 25 table of contents which the financial services industry conducts business and has and will continue to impose substantial new regulation on, and regulatory oversight of, a wide variety of financial services institutions. although many of the effects of the dodd-frank act will be largely unknown until all of the regulations have been finalized and implemented, complying with its existing and future requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. we may also be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. in addition, we may be materially adversely affected by changes in the interpretation or enforcement of existing laws and rules by these governmental authorities and self-regulatory organizations. it is impossible to determine the extent of the impact of any new laws, regulations or initiatives that may be proposed, or whether any of the proposals will become law. compliance with any new laws or regulations could make compliance more difficult and expensive and affect the manner in which we conduct business. in some instances, in connection with the provision of data and services, we have incurred additional costs to implement processes and systems at the request of our clients to ensure that the products and services that they in turn provide to their clients using our data are compliant with the financial regulations to which our clients may be subject. to the extent that our clients are subject to increased regulation, we may be indirectly impacted and could incur increased costs that could have a negative impact on the profitability of certain products. data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect and use personal data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, storage and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting certain types of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting, storing or disseminating certain types of data, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients needs. potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks . on september 18, 2013, the european commission issued its proposal for regulating indexes used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts and as benchmarks used to measure the performance of investment funds (com (2013) 641/3 and 2013/0314 (cod)). agreement in principle has been reached among the european commission, parliament and council and we expect that the final regulation, when adopted and implemented, will govern many aspects of our equity and real estate index product lines, including, but not limited to, index development, calculation, dissemination, governance, maintenance and recordkeeping, as well as input data licensing, collection and dissemination. because final guidance on the relevant technical standards has not yet been drafted by the european securities and markets authority ( esma ), it is difficult to predict its full effect on our index business. nevertheless, our compliance with any one or more substantive provisions of the final regulation, which we do not expect to be required until late 2017 or early 2018, could have a material adverse effect on our business practices and/or our ability to offer indexes in the european union, including without limitation, by materially increasing our costs of doing business, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causing our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at a reasonable cost or at all. on october 20, 2011, the european commission issued its proposal for mifid/mifir 2 (com (2011) 0652 and com (2011) 0656). agreement in principle has been reached among the european commission, parliament and council, and we expect that the regulation when it becomes effective and when our compliance is required (expected in 2019), will, among other things, mandate that, where the 26 table of contents value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark will be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues may license the benchmark and receive relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark for the purposes of clearing and trading. it is also expected that access to such licenses and information will have to be offered by the benchmark owner within three months of the request and on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms that are no less favorable than the terms offered to other trading venues unless a different basis can be objectively justified. because final guidance on the relevant technical standards has not yet been issued by esma, it is difficult to predict its full effect on our index business. in the event that compliance with this regulation leads to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, materially increases our cost of doing business or materially diminishes our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our index business. on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en), which are updated from time to time by esma ( guidelines ). the guidelines limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. the guidelines became effective as of february 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched ucits funds. they became effective for all ucits funds on february 17, 2014. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. to the extent that esma issues new guidance or different or new interpretations with respect to the guidelines, complying with such guidance could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a material negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indexes as the basis of etfs and ucits. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe have adopted, and others could adopt, similar concepts, proposals or regulations. on july 17, 2013, the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) published its final report on principles for financial benchmarks ( iosco principles ). the iosco principles cover conflicts of interest, benchmark quality and integrity, methodology requirements, procedures related to handling complaints, documentation requirements and audit reviews. the iosco principles require benchmark administrators to publicly disclose whether they comply with the iosco principles within 12 months of their initial publication, with such compliance subject to audit. on july 16, 2014, we announced our implementation of the iosco principles and have posted our annual audit results on our website. additionally, other jurisdictions could adopt similar principles or concepts, which could lead to a material change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, materially increase our cost of doing business, materially diminish our intellectual property rights, materially impact our contractual commitments to our data contributors or cause our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at a reasonable cost or at all, any of which could have material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may develop internally certain functionality contained in the products they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products unnecessary for them. similarly, a number of our clients have obtained regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that they manage. additionally, in august 2011, blackrock announced that it was seeking regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a growing number of asset managers and investment banks, in 27 table of contents partnership with index providers that offer calculation agent services, or acting together with an industry group or association, have created or may create their own range of proprietary indexes, which they use to manage funds or as the basis of etfs, structured products or otc derivatives. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above and increased competition in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and processes to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and processes. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and processes that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and processes may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered msci, barra, fea, investorforce, ipd and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 23 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have three u.s. patent applications pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our 28 table of contents confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we may not be able to determine with certainty whether misappropriation has occurred. likewise, we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license and other agreements non-disclosure obligations and the availability of remedies to us in the event of a breach may vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under online licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. see we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below for risks associated with the use of intellectual property obtained from third parties. third-party litigation there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the u.s. and germany, regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on a publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including the governing law, the amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results of these cases are favorable to the index owner, as in a case originally filed in the illinois state courts in 2006 involving the international securities exchange and its proposed use of the dow jones industrial average and the s&amp;p 500 index. in other instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner, as in a 2009 case in german federal court ruling that the owner of an index trademark who publishes the index in a manner generally available to all market participants cannot prohibit, on the basis of german trademark law, a third party from referring to the index as a reference value in options issued by the third party if the trademark is used for informational and factual purposes and its use does not imply that a relationship exists with the trademark owner. if other courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of certain technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have increasingly pursued or may consider pursuing patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model, software application or other relevant product or process, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. from time to time, such complaints are filed by or we receive such notices from others alleging intellectual property infringement or potential infringement. the number of these claims may grow. 29 table of contents responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, result in costly litigation or cause delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop selling or using the affected products or applications or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. if any of these risks materialize, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the use of open source code may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. further, some open source licenses provide that if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, the terms of many open source code licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties on terms that are not commercially feasible in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) portions of our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products or systems, to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or to take other remedial action that could divert resources away from our development efforts. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on the use of third-party software and data, and any reduction in third-party product quality or any failure by us to comply with our licensing requirements could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party software and data in connection with our product development and offerings. we depend on the ability and willingness of third-party software and data providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes. the third-party software and data we use may become obsolete or incompatible with future versions of our products. we also monitor our use of third-party software and data to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third-party software and data has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased software or data acquisition costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by software or data that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. in addition, our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party software or data increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other software or data are substantial. some of these third-party suppliers are also our competitors, increasing the risks noted above. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 table of contents if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. products we develop or license, including our indexes, may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. such errors can exist at any point in a product life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new methodologies and products, and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product or publish a methodology, we might have to delay the product or index release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we may not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors, and in certain cases it may be impracticable to correct such errors. if undetected errors exist in our products or methodologies, or if our products fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could result in harm to our reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations and/or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy or mitigate such errors. additionally, any undetected errors, defects, malfunctions or similar problems in our products or methodologies could lead to significant failures, disruptions or slowdowns with respect to our product delivery to clients. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our business relies heavily on electronic delivery systems, the internet and our information technology platform, and any failures, disruptions or instability may materially adversely affect our ability to serve our clients above and we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products to support our clients investment processes below. our business is dependent on our clients continued investment in equity securities as well as the measurement of the performance of our clients equity investments against equity benchmarks. if investment in equity markets declines, if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, or if they discontinue the use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. volatility in equity markets over an extended period or other factors may lead to an overall decline in the viability of such markets, which could reduce new business opportunities for us and our clients. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for our equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above . additionally, our equity index products serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our equity indexes could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity index products could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our principal business model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at specified locations and often by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services. for most of our 31 table of contents products, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe the annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased accessibility to free or relatively inexpensive information sources may reduce demand for our products and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. in recent years, the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information has increased, particularly through advances in public cloud computing and the increase in open source as well as proprietary software, and this trend may continue. the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information may reduce demand for our products. weak economic conditions can also result in clients seeking to utilize lower-cost information that is available from alternative sources. to the extent that our clients choose to use these sources for their information needs, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be materially adversely affected. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations potential and proposed regulation affecting benchmarks above. our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our current and potential future clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets. unfavorable changes in global or domestic financial market conditions may negatively impact the performance and financial viability of our current and potential clients, the majority of which are in the financial services industry. as a result, adverse financial market conditions could result in reduced demand for our products and services due to, among other things, the closure or consolidation of our clients, a decrease in the number of fund launches, including hedge fund launches or a shift in our clients investment patterns; the inability of our customers to pay for products or services, including forgoing products or services, delaying payment or underpaying; prolonged selling and renewal cycles; and increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. if we are unable to successfully identify, execute and realize synergies from acquisitions, or if we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our growth strategy, we seek to be a disciplined acquirer, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; 32 table of contents increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and which may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of our common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition-related activity within a limited period of time, the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. for all operations outside the u.s. where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in non-operating other expense (income), net in our consolidated statement of income. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, 17.8% and 20.2%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 17.8% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2015, 37.0% was in british pounds sterling, 35.8% was in euros and 21.6% was in japanese yen. of the 20.2% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2014, 38.3% was in euros, 34.0% was in british pounds sterling and 21.7% was in japanese yen. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 18.4% and 17.8% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 41.3% and 43.1% of our operating expenses, including operating expense attributable to income (loss) from 33 table of contents discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, swiss francs, euros, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars, chinese yuan and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss resulted from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $2.2 million and $3.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase or decrease in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates may correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we may become subject to liability based on the use of our products to support our clients investment processes. our products support the investment processes of our clients, which relate to, in the aggregate, trillions of dollars in assets. use of our products as part of the investment process creates the risk that our clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts based on what may be alleged to be even a small error in certain of our products. our client agreements have provisions designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or failure to provide services under our client contracts. however, these provisions do not always eliminate liability entirely and may have certain exceptions that could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. claims against us, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation or pose a significant disruption to our normal business operations. in addition, the duration or outcome of such claims and lawsuits is difficult if not impossible to predict, which could further exacerbate the adverse effect they may have on our business operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the company has issued an aggregate principal amount of $1.6 billion in senior unsecured notes in two discrete private offerings of $800.0 million each. on november 20, 2014, we completed a private offering of $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.250% senior notes due 2024 (the 2024 senior notes ) and entered into a new $200.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (our 2014 revolving credit agreement ). we used the net proceeds from the offering of the 2024 senior notes, together with cash on hand, to prepay in full the $794.8 million of outstanding indebtedness under our amended and restated senior secured term loan facility. on august 13, 2015, the company completed its second private offering of $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.750% senior notes due 2025 (the 2025 senior notes, and together with the 2024 senior notes, the senior notes ). the company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering of the 34 table of contents 2025 senior notes for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, previously announced repurchases of our common stock. see part ii, item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for additional information regarding our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the senior notes. as of december 31, 2015, we had $1.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness under the senior notes and $200.0 million of undrawn aggregate commitments under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, which includes $25.0 million for the issuance of letters of credit. any borrowings under our 2014 revolving credit agreement may be voluntarily prepaid and reborrowed. however, the undrawn portion of the aggregate commitments is subject to an unused commitment fee, which, upon specified increases in leverage, will rise by the applicable margin (as defined below). the senior notes and our 2014 revolving credit agreement are fully and unconditionally, and jointly and severally, guaranteed by our direct or indirect wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries that account for more than 5% of our and our subsidiaries consolidated assets, other than certain excluded subsidiaries (the subsidiary guarantors ). any amounts due under our 2014 revolving credit agreement would be our and the subsidiary guarantors senior unsecured obligations and rank equally with the senior notes and any of our other unsecured, unsubordinated debt, senior to any of our subordinated debt and effectively subordinated to our secured debt to the extent of the assets securing such debt. our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures dated as of november 20, 2014 and august 13, 2015, governing our senior notes, respectively (together, the indentures governing our senior notes ), among us, each of the subsidiary guarantors, and wells fargo bank, national association, as trustee, contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing and future subsidiaries abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. in addition, the indentures governing our senior notes restrict our non-guarantor subsidiaries ability to create, assume, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness without such non-guarantor subsidiaries guaranteeing the senior notes on a pari passu basis. our 2014 revolving credit agreement also requires us to comply with the following two financial ratio maintenance covenants, which are tested at least quarterly on a rolling four-quarter basis: (i) our maximum consolidated leverage ratio must not exceed 3.75:1.00 and (ii) our minimum consolidated interest coverage ratio must be at least 4.00:1.00. under the terms of our 2014 revolving credit agreement, certain increases (or decreases) in our consolidated leverage ratio may result in an increase (or decrease) in the fees applicable to (i) outstanding borrowings under such facility and (ii) undrawn commitments under such facility, in each case, in a predetermined percentage amount (the applicable margin ). if we experience, as of a scheduled quarterly test date, an increase in our consolidated leverage ratio above a threshold amount specified in our 2014 revolving credit agreement, the interest rates on our outstanding borrowings and/or the fee rate on our unused commitments will rise by the applicable margin. consequently, any increase in our consolidated leverage ratio could result in higher debt service costs under such facility, even if we do not have borrowings outstanding under such facility. on august 13, 2015, the company completed the offering of the 2025 senior notes, which caused our consolidated leverage ratio to increase to 3.08:1.00 as of december 31, 2015. as a result of our increase in leverage, we are currently subject to the highest applicable margin provided for under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, which has increased the rate on our unused commitments to 0.35%. in addition, our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes contain certain affirmative covenants. any of these restrictions may interfere with our ability to obtain financings and to engage in business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition below. 35 table of contents if we incur substantial additional indebtedness, the risks described above could be further exacerbated. we may need to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict, but do not completely prohibit, us from doing so. our 2014 revolving credit agreement provides for an incremental facility that allows us to increase aggregate commitments by an additional $200.0 million under certain circumstances. in addition, the indentures governing our senior notes allows us to issue additional senior notes under certain circumstances. accordingly, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time under our existing debt agreements and otherwise, to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify. specifically, a high level of indebtedness could, among other things: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations or proceeds of any equity issuance or additional debt incurrence to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, development activity, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the markets in which we operate; make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our 2014 revolving credit agreement are at variable rates; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes, such as raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the senior notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership; increase our interest expense; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes, there could be a default under the terms of these debt agreements. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. as a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests, and any such default under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financing, merger and acquisition or other corporate opportunities. additionally, if certain events of default occur, continue or remain uncured under our debt agreements, we are required to repurchase, redeem, repay or prepay, as the case may be, the debt under such agreement prior to maturity and/or such debt could become accelerated and immediately due and payable. for example, upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership, the holders of the senior notes have the right to compel us to repurchase all or part of the 2024 senior notes or 2025 senior notes, as applicable, in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of the aggregate principal amount to be repurchased plus accrued interest. additionally, the holders of the 2024 senior notes or 2025 senior notes may, in connection with certain events of default, accelerate the principal amount of the 2024 senior notes or 2025 senior notes, as applicable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and declare the same to be due and payable after giving the required notice. 36 table of contents likewise, under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, the lenders may, in connection with certain events of default, elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable. our debt agreements also contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, pursuant to which a default is deemed to have occurred under such agreement if a default or acceleration occurs under another debt agreement. for example, our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes contain cross-default provisions relating to nonpayment by us or any of our subsidiaries in connection with debt aggregating $50.0 million or more (subject to certain cure periods). if any of the above events should occur, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness. additionally, we may not be able to amend our debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. however, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. if we are unable to generate a sufficient amount of cash, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate and access cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. however, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. absent sufficient cash flow and the ability to refinance, we could also be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. however, the terms of our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes limit our and our subsidiaries ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. accordingly, we may not be able to sell assets quickly enough or for sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations on our indebtedness. increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of short-term and long-term funding and access to capital, fluctuations in the levels of interest rates and inflation, could materially adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses or results of operations. at december 31, 2015, we had no borrowings outstanding under our 2014 revolving credit agreement and all of our outstanding long-term debt was subject to a fixed interest rate. adverse conditions in the domestic and global financial markets could, however, increase our costs for additional financing and negatively affect our ability to refinance, repurchase, redeem, repay or prepay, as the case may be, our debt at or prior to maturity, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. our access to capital is also impacted by changes in interest rates and inflation, which could restrict the availability to us of short-term and long-term funding. recent interest rates in the u.s. have been at historically low levels, and increases in these rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our funds available for operations and other purposes with respect to newly incurred debt, or borrowings, if any, under our 2014 revolving credit agreement. additionally, any downgrades to our credit rating or outlook may increase the cost, and reduce the availability, of financing. see a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition below. if we borrow under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, such indebtedness would bear interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) for deposits of u.s. 37 table of contents dollars. libor tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market. increases in the interest rate generally, and particularly when coupled with any significant variable rate indebtedness, could materially adversely impact our interest expenses. to the extent we borrow under our 2014 revolving credit agreement, we are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge such indebtedness. if we decide not to enter into hedges on such indebtedness, our interest expense on such indebtedness will fluctuate based on libor or other variable interest rates. consequently, we may have difficulties servicing such unhedged indebtedness and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be materially adversely affected. if we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivative instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. our credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our common stock or outstanding debt. our outstanding debt under the senior notes, which amounts to an aggregate principal amount of approximately $1.6 billion, currently has a non-investment grade rating. any rating assigned to such debt is subject to ongoing evaluation by the credit rating agencies and could be lowered or withdrawn entirely at any time by such agency if, in the agency judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. such future circumstances include, but are not limited to, adverse changes to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, or revisions to our corporate strategy pertaining to capitalization or leverage. for example, on july 28, 2015, the board of directors authorized corporate action that led to a change in the company target leverage and interest expense, allowing for the issuance of our 2025 senior notes on august 13, 2015. following the board of directors authorization, one of the ratings agencies described the increase as substantially higher than current leverage levels and as a result downgraded our credit rating. this recent downgrade, and any further downgrade, could adversely affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. in addition, our debt covenants contain certain obligations that are triggered by a change in our credit rating. the senior notes contain covenants that require the company to offer to repurchase the 2024 senior notes or 2025 senior notes, as applicable, in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of their par value, in the event of a change of control of the company or disposition of substantially all of the company assets. the company is obligated to make such repurchase offer to noteholders if the following two conditions are met at the time of, or as a result of, such change of control or asset sale transaction: (i) the senior notes are rated below investment grade by each rating agency that rates the senior notes and (ii) the senior notes are downgraded by any rating agency. any adverse change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity and future growth through transactions in which we rely on the ability to receive debt capital at an advantageous cost and on favorable terms. accordingly, actual or anticipated changes or downgrades to or withdrawal of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review or have been assigned a negative outlook, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt. 38 table of contents certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our operations depend on our ability to seamlessly provide clients with products and customer service. we must protect our equipment and the information stored in our computer-based networks and databases against fires, floods, earthquakes and other natural disasters, as well as power losses, computer and telecommunications failures, technological breakdowns, internet failures, computer viruses, unauthorized intrusions, terrorist attacks on sites where we are located, and other events. we also depend on accessible physical office facilities and hardware for our employees in order for our operations to function properly. there can be no assurance that the business continuity plans that we have sufficiently cover or reduce the risk of interruption in our operations caused by these events. additionally, we may incur significant data recovery costs following any such event, and the scope of recovery will depend on, among other things, the effectiveness of our business continuity plans in mitigating the risks associated with the particular event that has occurred. such events could also have a material adverse effect on our clients. for example, immediately after the terrorist attacks on september 11, 2001, our clients who were located in the world trade center area were concentrating on disaster recovery rather than licensing additional products. in addition, delivery of some of the data we receive from new york-based suppliers was delayed. the grounding of air transportation impaired our ability to conduct sales visits and other meetings at client sites. during the resulting temporary closure of the u.s. stock markets, some of the data updates supporting our products were interrupted. these types of interruptions could affect our ability to sell and deliver products and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although we currently estimate that the total cost of ongoing development and implementation of our business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. unexpected or higher than estimated costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses in many ways. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls, customs duties, sanctions compliance, tax penalties, levies or assessments, broad regulatory discretion and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability in certain of the countries or regions in which we conduct operations. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the u.s. and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. for example, as of december 31, 2015, 52.8% of our employees were located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the u.s., we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. 39 table of contents many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and esg and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the u.s. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ) and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. our brand and reputation are key assets and competitive advantages of our company and our business may be affected by how we are perceived in the marketplace. our ability to attract and retain customers is affected by external perceptions of our brand and reputation. negative perceptions or publicity could damage our reputation with customers, prospects and the public generally, which could negatively impact, among other things, our ability to attract and retain customers, employees and suppliers, as well as suitable candidates for acquisition or other combinations. see any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above, we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our equity indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above and if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operation above. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income or indirect taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax 40 table of contents provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $1,957.1 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2015. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts and intangible assets annually, or when evidence of potential impairment exists. the annual impairment test is based on several factors requiring management judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. in connection with our initial public offering and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate in the future for a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. one possible outcome of such fluctuation could be a decline in the value of your investment. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in or failure to meet guidance or long-term targets provided by the company with respect to financial and operating metrics; changes in operating margins; declines in the value of aum in etfs linked to msci indexes; loss of key clients (see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above); changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; 41 table of contents changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; changes in our dividend policy or stock repurchase program; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; changes in or departures of key personnel; investors general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance or long-term targets that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance and long-term targets to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to manage our expenses, generate free cash flow, achieve a certain effective tax rate, access cash generated outside of the u.s. and achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance and long-term targets provide investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company future performance, such financial guidance and long-term targets are based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance or achieve the long-term targets that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year or long-term targets over time, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our initial public offering and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plans. as of february 19, 2016, 98,786,211 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in november 2007, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 12,500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to our officers and 42 table of contents certain of our employees pursuant to the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and the 500,000 shares of common stock reserved for issuance in respect of equity awards made to our directors who are not employees of the company or morgan stanley pursuant to the msci independent directors equity compensation plan. as of december 31, 2015, we had issued 7,813,090 and 173,393 shares of common stock under the msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan and msci independent directors equity compensation plan, respectively. in february 2016, the board of directors, upon the recommendation of the compensation committee, approved the msci inc. 2016 omnibus plan ( omnibus plan ), a new equity incentive compensation plan that the company will propose for approval at the company 2016 annual meeting of shareholders. pursuant to the omnibus plan, the company will reserve additional shares of common stock for issuance, which will be registered under the securities act if the plan is approved by the company shareholders. see part ii, item 5. market for registrant common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity equity compensation plans. in connection with the acquisition of riskmetrics, we filed a registration statement registering under the securities act the 4,257,779 shares of msci common stock reserved for issuance in respect of incentive awards to officers and certain employees of riskmetrics pursuant to the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan and riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan (collectively, the rmg plans ). as of december 31, 2015, we had issued 3,837,798 shares of common stock under the rmg plans. in june 2010, we also filed a registration statement assuming 3,060,090 shares available under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan. as of december 31, 2015, we had issued 2,097,370 shares of common stock under the riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan, which terminated on june 30, 2012. see note 10, shareholders equity of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. also in the future, we may issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. 43 table of contents section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by such person. these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of the company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. we may not be able to maintain payments of dividends at current levels and the failure to do so may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. on september 17, 2014, our board of directors approved a plan to initiate a regular quarterly cash dividend to our shareholders. on october 30, 2014, we began paying regular quarterly cash dividends and have paid such dividends each quarter thereafter. on february 2, 2016, our board of directors declared our next quarterly cash dividend, in an amount of $0.22 per share of common stock, to be paid on march 11, 2016 to shareholders of record as of the close of trading on february 19, 2016. although we plan to continue to pay regular quarterly cash dividends at the target rates (currently 30%-40% of adjusted eps) established by our board of directors from time to time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so or that we will achieve an annual dividend rate in any particular amount. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the quarterly or annual rate of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. our cash dividend policy is based upon our board of directors assessment of our financial condition and the general business environment in which we operate at the time of declaration. any future declaration and payment of cash dividends to our shareholders depends on the assessment of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and a change in any one or more factors could affect our dividend policy. these factors include: our results of operations and liquidity; future prospects for earnings and cash flows; our available cash on hand and anticipated cash needs; the level and timing of capital expenditures, principal repayments and other capital needs; our ability to comply with current or future financial and negative covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments (including the incurrence covenants contained in our 2014 revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes); tax treatment of dividends in the u.s.; legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and other provisions of law in any applicable jurisdiction; and any other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant in light of the prevailing conditions at the time of such assessment. as a result, we can give no assurance that we will in the future choose or be able to declare or pay a cash dividend, maintain our current level of dividends or increase them over time. our failure to declare or pay a dividend, a reduction in the level of such dividend or the discontinuance of such dividend could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the share repurchase programs approved by our board of directors may not result in enhanced value to shareholders and may negatively affect our share price. on october 28, 2015, our board of directors approved a share repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $1.0 billion worth of shares of our common stock (the 2015 repurchase program ). share repurchases made pursuant to the 2015 repurchase program may take place in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time based on market and other conditions. this authorization may be modified, suspended or terminated by our board of directors at any time without prior notice. the 2015 repurchase program carries risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, that the authorized purchases will not be completed within the expected timing or will not be made at the best possible price. additionally, we are permitted to, and may, discontinue the 2015 repurchase program at any time, including, without limitation, upon 44 table of contents determining that we have insufficient cash flows or surplus levels required by delaware law to continue to execute such program. any such discontinuation or inability to continue to execute the 2015 repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will pursue or be successful in completing the execution of the 2015 repurchase program or any future repurchase program. additionally, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our shares. as a result, any repurchase program may not ultimately result in enhanced value to our shareholders and may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 88 qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. for all operations outside the u.s. where the company has designated the local non-u.s. dollar currency as the functional currency, revenue and expenses are translated using average monthly exchange rates and assets and liabilities are translated into u.s. dollars using month-end exchange rates. for these operations, currency translation adjustments arising from a change in the rate of exchange between the functional currency and the u.s. dollar are accumulated in a separate component of shareholders equity. in addition, transaction gains and losses arising from a change in exchange rates for transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity are reflected in non-operating other expense (income), net in our consolidated statement of income. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, 17.8% and 20.2%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 17.8% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2015, 37.0% was in british pounds sterling, 35.8% was in euros and 21.6% was in japanese yen. of the 20.2% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2014, 38.3% was in euros, 34.0% was in british pounds sterling and 21.7% was in japanese yen. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 18.4% and 17.8% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 41.3% and 43.1% of our operating expenses, including operating expense attributable to income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of income taxes, for the years ended december 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, swiss francs, euros, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars, chinese yuan and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. 88 table of contents we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss resulted from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the income statement impact associated with amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $2.2 million, $3.0 million and $2.4 million for the years ended december 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.risk factors 18 risk factors legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights below. company history the following is a summary of the company's history since its inception: msci timeline 1969 capital international pioneered the development of global equity indexes and began licensing its first equity indexes in 1969. 1998 we were incorporated in 1998 and became a public company in november 2007. our only two shareholders were morgan stanley and capital group international. 2004 in june 2004, we acquired barra, llc (formerly barra, inc., barra ), a provider of portfolio risk analytics tools that launched its first risk analytics products in 1975. this broadened our product range beyond indexes. 2007 in november 2007, we completed our initial public offering. 2008 in april 2008, capital group international divested its ownership position. 2009 in may 2009, morgan stanley divested its ownership position and we became a fully independent, stand-alone public company. 2010 in june 2010, we acquired riskmetrics group, inc. ( riskmetrics ), a leading provider of risk management products and services. in addition to this core product line, riskmetrics owned institutional shareholder services inc. ( iss ), a pioneer in the development of policy-based proxy voting recommendations and a leading provider of governance products and services. riskmetrics also owned the center for financial research and analysis ( cfra ), innovest strategic value advisors, inc. ( innovest ) and kld research and analytics ( kld research ). innovest and kld research are now known as msci esg research llc ( msci esg research ). in july 2010, we acquired measurisk, llc ( measurisk ), a provider of risk transparency and risk measurement tools for hedge fund investors. with our clients' demanding increasing levels of transparency from their hedge fund managers, this acquisition helped us develop a broad platform and set the standard for analyzing and reporting hedge fund risk. measurisk's products are now part of our hedge fund risk transparency offerings. 14 2012 in november 2012, we acquired real estate performance measurement group ipd group limited ( ipd ). the acquisition of ipd expanded our multi-asset class offerings by facilitating the integration of private real estate assets into our models, as well as adding a family of real estate indexes to our suite of equity indexes. 2013 in january 2013, we acquired investor force holdings, inc. ( investorforce ), a leading provider of performance reporting tools to the institutional investment community in the u.s. the investorforce offering enables us to provide consultants with integrated, daily monitoring, analysis of and reporting on institutional assets. in march 2013, we completed the sale of the cfra product line. 2014 in april 2014, we completed the sale of iss, which was not deemed to be core to our strategy. in august 2014, we acquired governance holdings co. ( gmi ratings ), a provider of corporate governance research and ratings to institutional investors, banks, insurers, auditors, regulators and corporations seeking to incorporate esg criteria into risk assessment and decision-making. this acquisition enhanced our existing platform of esg research and tools, allowing us to deliver a more comprehensive suite of esg data, applications and services to our clients. 2015 in october 2015, we acquired all of the assets of insignis, inc. ( insignis ), a leading provider of daily automated collection, aggregation and management of financial data. this acquisition helped us further automate the collection and integration of data across our risk and performance management platforms. 2016 in august 2016, we completed the sale of the real estate occupiers business, which was acquired as part of the ipd acquisition in 2012. for more information about our acquisitions and dispositions, see note 12, dispositions and discontinued operations, and note 11, acquisitions, of the notes to consolidated financial statements included herein. employees we had 2,862 and 2,754 employees as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. as of december 31, 2016 and 2015, 56.2% and 52.8% of our employees, respectively, were located in emerging market centers. government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec requirements. msci esg research is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. we registered in 2012 with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. see part i, item 1a. risk factors changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations or the repeal of existing financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations . executive officers name age position henry a. fernandez 58 chairman, chief executive officer and president kathleen a. winters 49 chief financial officer remy briand 51 head of esg and real estate scott a. crum 60 chief human resources officer jorge mina 42 head of analytics richard j. napolitano 50 principal accounting officer and global controller 15 c.d. baer pettit 52 chief operating officer laurent seyer 52 chief client officer diana h. tidd 47 head of index peter j. zangari 49 global head of research and product development henry a. fernandez mr. fernandez has served as the chairman since october 2007 and as the chief executive officer ( ceo ), president and a director since 1998. before leading msci's transition to becoming a fully independent, standalone public company in 2009, he was a managing director at morgan stanley, where he worked in emerging markets product strategy, equity derivative sales and trading, mergers and acquisitions, worldwide corporate finance and mortgage finance for u.s. financial institutions. mr. fernandez worked for morgan stanley from 1983 to 1991 and from 1994 to 2009. mr. fernandez serves on the board of trustees of stanford university and the board of directors of georgetown university. he also serves on the boards of the hoover institution at stanford university, the foreign policy association, memorial sloan-kettering cancer center, catholic charities of the archdiocese of new york and the american nicaraguan foundation. mr. fernandez is the former chair of the advisory council of the stanford university graduate school of business. he holds a bachelor of arts in economics from georgetown university, an m.b.a. from the stanford university graduate school of business and pursued doctoral studies in economics at princeton university. kathleen a. winters ms. winters has served as the chief financial officer (the cfo ) since may 2016. prior to joining msci, ms. winters served as the vice president and chief financial officer of performance materials and technologies, an operating segment of honeywell international, inc. ( honeywell ) from 2012 to 2016. she served in various positions of increasing responsibility at honeywell from 2002 to 2016, including vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer, vice president of business analysis and planning, and chief financial officer of the specialty products business group. ms. winters began her career at pricewaterhousecoopers llp ( pwc ) where she served in various positions from 1989 to 2001 within the technology information communications and entertainment practice. she earned her bachelor of science degree in accounting from boston college. remy briand mr. briand was appointed the head of msci's esg and real estate segments in june 2016. in such capacity, he is responsible for msci's esg (environmental, social and governance) ratings products as well as msci's real estate benchmarking and analytics services. mr. briand has led various aspects of the esg business since its acquisition in 2010. he also previously served as global head of research for the entire company from february 2015 until february 2017 where he led a team of 150 researchers designing indexes, analytics and risk models for institutional investors and producing esg ratings and research on thousands of companies. prior to february 2015, mr. briand was the head of index research for 10 years, where he managed the expansion of the msci global indexes to cover 80 developed, emerging and frontier markets and initiated and led the development of msci's market leading factor indexes. mr. briand joined msci in 2001 from credit lyonnais asset management, where he was an equity portfolio manager and head of research. he began his career as a private equity analyst at credit lyonnais. he holds an msc in computer sciences from insa (lyon) and an mba from hec (paris). scott a. crum mr. crum has served as the chief human resources officer since april 2014. prior to joining msci, mr. crum served as global head of human resources for four publicly traded companies. mr. crum worked for avon products, inc. as senior vice president of human resources and chief people officer from september 2012 to may 2013. from july 2010 to june 2012, mr. crum served as senior vice president and chief people officer of motorola mobility holdings, inc., one of two publicly traded companies formally created when motorola inc. split in january 2011. prior to that, he served as the senior vice president and director of human resources of itt corporation from september 2002 to july 2010 and senior vice president of administration and employee 16 resources at general instruments corp. from 1997 to 2000. mr. crum holds a bachelor of business administration with a concentration in industrial relations from southern methodist university . jorge mina mr. mina has served as the head of analytics since february 2017. in this role, he is responsible for msci's equity and multi-asset class risk and portfolio management products. prior to this, he had served as head of analytics for the americas since 2015. mr. mina joined msci in 2010 following msci's acquisition of riskmetrics and served as a managing director of risk management analytics from 2010 to 2015. prior to joining msci, mr. mina served in a variety of roles at riskmetrics, including co-head of the riskmetrics business and head of research. mr. mina holds a bachelor of arts degree in actuarial sciences from the instituto tecnol gico aut nomo de m xico and a master's in financial mathematics from the university of chicago. richard j. napolitano mr. napolitano has served as the principal accounting officer since february 2014 and global controller since june 2011. prior to joining msci, mr. napolitano worked at morgan stanley from 2005 to 2011, j.p. morgan chase from 1996 to 2005 and ernst &amp; young from 1988 to 1996. at these firms, he held various positions including, among others, business unit or product chief financial officer or controller, head of external reporting and accounting policies and audit senior manager. mr. napolitano earned his bachelor of science in accounting and an m.b.a. in finance from the leonard n. stern school of business at new york university. he is also a member of the american institute of certified public accountants. c.d. baer pettit mr. pettit has served as the chief operating officer since october 2015. as such, mr. pettit oversees the firm's operations, technology and product lines. before taking on his current role, mr. pettit served as head of the product group from february 2015 to september 2015, head of client coverage from 2001 to august 2012, head of marketing from 2005 to august 2012 and head of index products from september 2011 to september 2015. prior to joining msci, mr. pettit worked for bloomberg l.p. from 1992 to 1999, most recently as deputy head of european sales. he holds a master of arts degree in history from cambridge university and a master of science degree from the school of foreign service at georgetown university. laurent seyer mr. seyer has served as chief client officer since september 2016. in such capacity, mr. seyer is responsible for the firm's sales, marketing, account management and client service teams globally. before taking on his current role, mr. seyer served as the global head of client coverage from december 2014 to september 2016. prior to joining msci, mr. seyer worked for axa investment managers llc in paris, most recently as global head of the client group. prior to that, he spent 24 years at societe generale in a number of leadership positions, including as ceo of lyxor asset management from 2006 to 2012, and held senior roles in equity derivatives and structured product sales, mergers and acquisitions, corporate finance, and corporate development and business strategy. mr. seyer graduated from institut d'etudes politiques of paris, where he studied law and economics. diana h. tidd ms. tidd has served as the head of index since february 2016. in such capacity, she is responsible for all aspects of product management and business strategy for the msci indexes. during her tenure at msci, ms. tidd has served in a variety of roles, including head of americas client coverage for six years. prior to joining msci in 1999, ms. tidd worked at brown brothers harriman &amp; co. in boston for five years where she had roles in the risk and europe teams, before becoming head of the asia team in the global custody division. she started her career in the trust and estates division of the private bank at bankers trust co. ms. tidd serves as co-president, of women in etfs ( we ) and on the board of we, as well as west africa village education. ms. tidd graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in political science from colgate university and received a master's degree in latin american studies from stanford university. 17 peter j. zangari mr. zangari has served as the global head of research and product development since february 2017. in such capacity, mr. zangari leads a global team of more than 150 researchers who develop insights that help institutional investors make more informed investment decisions. he is responsible for setting the research agenda and driving integration of research into our products and services to deliver innovative solutions to investment problems. he previously served as msci's head of analytics from february 2015 to february 2017. prior to this, he served as the head of equity portfolio management from august 2011 to february 2015. prior to joining msci, mr. zangari held progressively senior-level positions at goldman sachs since 1998, most recently as the head of risk and a member of the leadership team for the quantitative investment strategies ( qis ) business of goldman sachs asset management ( gsam ). prior to joining qis, mr. zangari was responsible for building out and managing gsam's proprietary equity risk and attribution platform. mr. zangari has a bachelor of arts degree in economics from fordham university and a phd in economics, with a specialization in applied econometrics and computational statistics, from rutgers university. available information our corporate headquarters are located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com . the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. you may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information about the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . we also make available free of charge, on or through our website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage ( http://ir.msci.com ). we also use our investor relations homepage and corporate twitter account (@msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the email alert subscription section of our investor relations homepage at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm . the contents of our website, including our investor relations homepage, and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements on page 1 for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business we are dependent on the use of third-party data and software, and any loss of key outside suppliers of data or software products or reduction in the accuracy or quality of such data or products or any failure by us to comply with our vendors' licensing requirements could impair our ability to provide our clients 18 with the products or services they desire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on the accuracy and quality of third-party data and software products and depend on the ability and willingness of third-party data and software providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes in order to produce and deliver our products, provide services and develop new products and services. if the data and software products from our suppliers have errors, are delayed, have design defects, become incompatible with future versions of our products, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, we may not be able to deliver our products and services and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. as of december 31, 2016, we relied on the data of over 200 suppliers, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. many of our data and software suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of provision of data by one or more of our significant data suppliers or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, a data provider's information could decrease the information available for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also monitor our use of third-party data and software products to comply with applicable license requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third-party data and software products has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased data acquisition or software costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by data or software that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party data or software products increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other data or software are substantial and we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent data or software products. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations . our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of their funds linked to msci indexes or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, and in our largest market, the u.s. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages, which are sometimes calculated as a percentage of the relevant fund's total expense ratio ( ter ). additionally, competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide exchange traded funds ( etfs ), among other products. the fees etf providers charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for 19 these etf managers with some etf providers seeking to win or retain business by charging their clients lower fees. as noted above, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in a product provider's ter. in those cases, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. moreover, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or switch to a lower fee index, and at least one large client has ceased using msci indexes as the basis for a significant number of its index funds in the past. we offer a diversified pricing structure for our indexes and from time-to-time experience faster growth in lower fee product areas, resulting in a lower average asset-based fee percentage for licensing our indexes. while we look to maximize the price/volume trade-off over the long-term there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so and results for any given quarter could be materially adversely affected by stronger growth in lower fee products areas that is not sufficiently off-set by growth in the volume of aum in etfs or other products that are based on our indexes. in the instances described above, our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the ability of our licensees to cease using our indexes or switch to lower fee indexes is generally true not just with respect to an index's use as the basis of an etf but also with respect to its use as the basis of other financial products, including mutual funds and institutional funds. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients etfs and institutional funds based on the same indexes, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the use of the same index as the basis of the other type of product. if we are required to offer clients materially lower asset-based fee percentages with respect to investment products that generate fees based on the assets of such products or our largest clients cease to use our indexes, our revenues could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. clients that use our indexes as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the value of the investment product's assets. the value of an investment product's assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and cash inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for 18.3% and 18.4% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 47.4% and 48.3% of the total revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. volatile capital markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. accordingly, the value of assets linked to etfs can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and such volatility may be further impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are unable to offset the impact of decreased values of assets linked to etfs, including by managing our operating costs, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. see our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. 20 certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, including interruptions affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and the internet, that could impair our ability to provide clients with products and customer service. any resulting failures, disruptions or instability may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations . we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet to seamlessly provide clients with products and customer service. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, intrusions or hacking, human error, cyber-terrorism, terrorist attacks affecting sites where we are located, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, technical breakdowns, internet failures or computer viruses could impair our systems' operations or interrupt their availability for extended periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our operations, including to our information technology platform, our electronic delivery systems or the internet, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services or to whom we distribute index and constituent data on a real time basis that is used to manage funds that replicate msci indexes, may be materially adversely affected. for example, we have in recent years experienced denial-of-service attacks. while we have implemented disaster recovery and business continuity plans and have been able to defend our systems against such disruptions and attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future or that our disaster recovery or business continuity plans will be effective in mitigating the risks and costs associated with the particular event that has occurred. we have also experienced unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products after we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers and may experience such interruptions and delays in the future with respect to migrations within existing data centers or to new data centers. in response to such issues, we have in the past and could again be required to provide service credits. we could also experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also incur increased operating expenses to recover data, repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, and to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks. accordingly, any significant failures, disruptions or instability affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems or the internet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, failures, or breaches. although we currently estimate that the total cost of ongoing development and implementation of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. unexpected or higher than estimated costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect client data that we receive in the ordinary course of business, including sensitive and confidential client data such as material non-public information and client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems, against unauthorized data access or disclosure. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation may result in claims against us by our clients or regulatory inquiry or censure, which could, individually or in the aggregate, damage our brand and reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or data privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government 21 regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations or the repeal of existing financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations below . we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of the material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indexes from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our equity indexes can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indexes. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have confidentiality policies in place and have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail or we are delayed in implementing such procedures as necessary with respect to a newly acquired business and an employee inadvertently discloses, or deliberately misuses, material non-public information about a change to one of our indexes, our reputation may suffer. clients' loss of trust and confidence in our confidentiality policies or information barrier policies and procedures could negatively impact our brand or reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list etfs or other financial products based on our equity indexes only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have information barrier procedures in place designed to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material, non-public information about changes to the composition of our equity indexes. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our equity indexes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our specialized competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. larger competitors may offer price incentives to expand their market share, and may also consolidate with one another or form joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for a narrower pool of competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies resulting from an expanded suite of products and services. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many of the markets for our products and services, including for single-purpose product companies. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, more broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. recent developments, including increases in the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information, advances in public cloud computing and the increase in open source code, as well as proprietary software in specific areas, such as pricing, high volume computing, orchestration layers for services, and visualization, have increasingly allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. 22 financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those resulting from weak or volatile economic conditions, may lead certain clients to reduce their overall spending on our products or services, including by seeking similar products or services at a lower cost than what we are able to provide, by consolidating their spending with fewer providers or by self-sourcing certain of their informational needs. accordingly, competitive pressures may result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, price reductions, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of their funds linked to msci indexes or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above and part i, item 1. business competition above . to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage transitions and product integrations. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of this industry and the impact of technological change on our products and services, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration of products and services within msci and with third-party platforms, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. if, among other things, we fail to accurately predict or respond or adapt to evolving technologies and changing industry standards, if we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients or cannot be integrated with third-party platforms, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated, if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, or if competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are more competitive than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients' needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. for example, we have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and services and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also present execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. 23 a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations . for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 25.7% and 26.0% of our total revenues, respectively. our revenue growth depends on our ability to obtain new clients and achieve and sustain a high level of renewal rates with respect to our existing subscription base and our investment product licenses. failure of one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2016, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 9.4% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, 93.7% and 93.0%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock's etfs that are based on our indexes. if one or more of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of their funds linked to msci indexes or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. if we experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, software development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs, and we cannot adjust to these costs, our operating results may fluctuate significantly or our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development, marketing efforts, or capital return or allocation strategies as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage transitions and product integrations . failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, experience and ability of our highly skilled, educated and trained employees. accordingly, we believe that the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executive officers and other key management, research, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other technical personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, our management and other employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. during 2015 and 2016, our board of directors adopted significant changes to the company's compensation approach and philosophy, including the implementation of a more performance-based approach to the payment of annual cash compensation pursuant to our annual incentive plan (the aip ) based on the achievement of certain financial metrics and long-term equity incentive compensation based on total shareholder return for executive officers and managing directors. we also implemented the cip initiative in 2016 to further incentivize our client coverage personnel by aligning each eligible employee's target annual incentive with key performance metrics in accordance with our overall goals and strategy. if our cash and equity incentive plans, including our new cash bonus plan (i.e., the aip and cip) and long-term equity incentive compensation program, do not adequately engage our 24 key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract, engage and retain the necessary qualified personnel, the quality of our products and services as well as our ability to support and retain our customers and achieve business objectives may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations . any future expansion may place significant strain on our management and other resources. our expansion in the past and any future expansion, particularly in emerging market locations, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with prior expansion of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if in the future, we expand organically or by way of acquisition, our management will be effective in attracting, engaging and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all of our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing expansion. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. any failure to effectively manage expansion or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses below, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above, part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below and part i, item 1. business company history above. changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations or the repeal of existing financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments with some jurisdictions regulating indexes directly. these regulations are complex, evolve frequently, and are subject to administrative interpretation and judicial construction in ways that could materially adversely affect our business. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients' businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules or regulations in various jurisdictions, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license our products or could impose additional costs on us. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could impact their demand for our products and services. likewise, to the extent that our clients become bound by certain laws, rules or regulations, we may incur higher costs in connection with modifying our products or services at their request even in instances where we are not directly legally bound. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our current and potential future clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets below. investment advisers act . except with respect to certain products provided by msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products and services do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product line or changes to current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. 25 dodd-frank act and other financial regulations . we may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. uncertainty caused by political change in the united states and europe (particularly brexit) heightens regulatory uncertainty. the enactment of the dodd-frank act on july 21, 2010 had a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business. however, the full effect of the dodd-frank act is still unknown given that certain rules and regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act have yet to take effect or may be largely repealed or modified. as a result of the regulatory uncertainty surrounding the dodd-frank act, complying with its existing and future requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business, and results of operations. in some instances, in connection with the provision of data and services, we have incurred additional costs to implement processes and systems at the request of our clients to ensure that the products and services that they in turn provide to their clients using our data are compliant with the financial regulations to which our clients may be subject. to the extent that our clients are subject to increased regulation, we may be indirectly impacted and could incur increased costs that could have a negative impact on the profitability of certain products. data privacy legislation . changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect, manage, aggregate, store, transfer and use personal data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, storage, transfer and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting, managing, aggregating, storing, transferring or using certain types of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting, managing, aggregating, storing, transferring or using certain types of data, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' needs. regulation affecting benchmarks . regulation (eu) 2016/1011 on indexes used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds was published on june 30, 2016 with effect on january 1, 2018. the new regulation governs index development, calculation, dissemination, governance, maintenance and recordkeeping, as well as input data licensing, collection and dissemination. because this regulation governs a new area and the final technical standards under the regulation have yet to be published in final form, the full impact on our index product line is still to be determined. additionally, the european securities and markets authority ( esma ) may issue guidance with different or new interpretations with respect to the regulation or technical standards. complying with the regulation, technical standards or guidance could lead to a change in our business practices and/or our ability to offer indexes in the european union, including without limitation, by increasing our costs of doing business, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet contractual commitments to our data contributors, or causing our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at a reasonable cost or at all, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. under the markets in financial instruments regulation (regulation (eu) no 600/2014), where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark will be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues may license the benchmark and receive relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark for the purposes of clearing and trading. access to such licenses and information will have to be offered by the benchmark owner within three months of the request and on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms that are no less favorable than the terms offered to other trading venues unless a different basis can be objectively justified. in the event that compliance with this regulation (expected to be required in 2019) leads to a change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, increases our cost of doing business or diminishes our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our index product line. 26 on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en), which are updated from time to time by esma ( guidelines ). the guidelines limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. the guidelines became effective as of february 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched ucits funds. they became effective for all ucits funds on february 17, 2014. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. to the extent that esma issues new guidance or different or new interpretations with respect to the guidelines, complying with such guidance could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a material negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indexes as the basis of etfs and ucits. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe have adopted, and others could adopt, similar concepts, proposals or regulations . on july 17, 2013, the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) published its final report on principles for financial benchmarks ( iosco principles ). the iosco principles cover conflicts of interest, benchmark quality and integrity, methodology requirements, procedures related to handling complaints, documentation requirements and audit reviews. the iosco principles require benchmark administrators to publicly disclose whether they comply with the iosco principles within 12 months of their initial publication, with such compliance subject to audit. we announced our implementation of the iosco principles on july 16, 2014 and posted our audit results on our website in july 2015 and july 2016. to the extent that iosco issues new principles or different or new interpretations with respect to the existing iosco principles and/or any individual jurisdictions adopt similar, new or different concepts, proposals or regulations, complying with such principles, concepts, proposals or regulations could lead to a change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, including without limitation, by increasing our costs of doing business, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet our commitments to our data contributors or causing our data contributors to refuse to contribute data to us at a reasonable cost or at all, any of which could have material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products or services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may internally develop certain functionality contained in the products or services they currently license from us. for example, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products or services unnecessary for them. similarly, a number of our clients have obtained regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that they manage. for example, on september 20, 2016, blackrock received exemptive relief from the sec to create certain indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products or services may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a growing number of asset managers and investment banks, in partnership with index providers that offer calculation agent services, or acting together with an industry group or association, have created or may create their own range of proprietary indexes, which they use to manage funds or as the basis of etfs, structured products or otc derivatives. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above and increased competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and services to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to 27 protect our products and services. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and services that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and services may not be subject to intellectual property protection . trademarks and service marks we have registered msci, barra, fea, investorforce, ipd and riskmetrics as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. we have also registered other marks for certain products and services in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 23 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have one u.s. patent application pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients' right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we may not be able to determine with certainty whether misappropriation has occurred. likewise, we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license and other agreements' non-disclosure obligations and the availability of remedies to us in the event of a breach may vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under online licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. third-party litigation there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the u.s. and germany, regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including the governing law, the 28 amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner. if courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial regulations or the repeal of existing financial regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of certain technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. from time to time, we receive claims or notices from third parties alleging infringement or potential infringement of their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have increasingly pursued or may consider pursuing patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model, software application or other relevant product or process, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, and result in costly litigation or delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop providing or using the affected products or services or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. if any of these risks materialize, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the use of open source code may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims or the quality of the code. further, some open source licenses provide that if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, the terms of many open source code licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties on terms that are not commercially feasible in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) portions of our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products or systems, to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or to take other remedial action that could divert resources away from our development efforts. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 29 if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations . our products and services support the investment processes of our clients, which relate to, in the aggregate, trillions of dollars in assets. products we develop or license, including our indexes, may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. use of our products or services as part of the investment process creates the risk that our clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts based on what may be alleged to be even a small error or malfunction in certain of our products or services. errors or defects can exist at any point in a product's life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new methodologies and products, and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product or publish a methodology, we might have to delay the product or index release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we may not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors, and in certain cases it may be impracticable to correct such errors. if undetected errors exist in our products or methodologies, or if our products fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could result in harm to our brand or reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations and/or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy or mitigate such errors. additionally, any undetected errors, defects, malfunctions or similar problems in our products or methodologies could lead to significant failures, disruptions or slowdowns with respect to our product delivery to clients. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, including interruptions affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and the internet, that could impair our ability to provide clients with products and customer service. any resulting failures, disruptions or instability may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations above. while we have provisions in our client contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or services or delay or failure to provide services, these provisions do not always eliminate liability resulting from the occurrence of any of these events entirely and may have certain exceptions that could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. any such claims brought against us, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation or pose a significant disruption to our normal business operations. in addition, the duration or outcome of such claims and lawsuits is difficult if not impossible to predict, which could further exacerbate the adverse effect they may have on our business operations. our business is dependent on our clients' continued investment in equity securities as well as the measurement of the performance of our clients' equity investments against equity benchmarks. if investment in equity markets declines, if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, or if they discontinue the use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. volatility in equity markets over an extended period or other factors may lead to an overall decline in the viability of such markets, which could reduce new business opportunities for us and our clients. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for our equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. 30 additionally, our equity indexes serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our equity indexes could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity indexes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations . cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses or renegotiation of terms by a significant number of clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our principal business model is to license annual, recurring subscriptions to our products for use at specified locations and often by a given number of users or for a certain volume of products or services. for most of our products and services, our clients may cancel their subscriptions or investment product licenses at the end of the current term. while we believe the primarily annual, recurring subscription model supports our marketing efforts by allowing clients to subscribe without the requirement of a long-term commitment, the cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by a significant number of clients at any given time may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our financial condition and results of operations may be negatively impacted to the extent that our current and potential future clients are affected by adverse changes in the financial markets. unfavorable changes in global or domestic financial market conditions may negatively impact the performance and financial viability of our current and potential clients, the majority of which are in the financial services industry. as a result, adverse financial market conditions could result in reduced demand for our products and services due to, among other things, the closure or consolidation of our clients, a decrease in the number of fund launches, including hedge fund launches or a shift in our clients' investment patterns; the inability of our customers to pay for products or services, including forgoing products or services, delaying payment or underpaying; prolonged selling and renewal cycles; and increased reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable. if we are unable to successfully identify, execute and realize synergies from acquisitions, or if we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our growth strategy, we seek to be a disciplined acquirer, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot assure you that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and which may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of our common stock; 31 loss of key personnel; diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition-related activity within a limited period of time, the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, 16.9% and 17.8%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 16.9% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2016, 35.5% was in british pounds sterling, 34.4% was in euros and 24.9% was in japanese yen. of the 17.8% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2015, 37.0% was in british pounds sterling, 35.8% was in euros, and 21.6% was in japanese yen. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 18.3% and 18.4% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product's assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 38.3% and 41.3% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, swiss francs, euros, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars, chinese yuan and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss resulted from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $0.2 million and $2.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we are currently party to or may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase or decrease in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates may correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. most recently, on june 23, 2016, the 32 united kingdom voted to leave the european union through the referendum of the united kingdom's membership of the european union, an event commonly referred to as brexit. while the full effects of brexit will not be known for some time, the brexit vote caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound sterling . for example, the exchange rate as of december 31, 2016 was 0.81/$1 compared with a rate on june 23, 2016 of 0.68/$1 and a rate on june 1, 2016 of 0.69/$1. the weaker british pound sterling means that revenues earned in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar revenues. the weaker british pound sterling also means that expenses incurred in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar expenses. the weaker british pound sterling could also impair the purchasing power of our clients and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. the fall in the british pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar, and the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to a number of currencies including the british pound sterling, could have significant impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations . our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2016, we had $2.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness from our senior notes and a related interest expense of $101.7 million for the year ended december 31, 2016. we also maintain a $220.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the revolving credit agreement ), which was undrawn as of december 31, 2016. although management believes that our cash flows will be sufficient to service our outstanding indebtedness, there may be circumstances in which required payments of principal and/or interest on this debt could adversely affect our cash flows. the terms of our current financing include restrictive covenants that limit our ability and our existing and future subsidiaries' abilities to, among other things, incur liens; incur additional indebtedness; make investments; make acquisitions, merge, dissolve, liquidate, consolidate with or into another person; sell, transfer or dispose of assets; pay dividends or other distributions in respect of our capital stock; change the nature of our business; enter into any transactions with affiliates other than on an arm's length basis; and prepay, redeem or repurchase debt. in addition, the agreements relating to our senior notes restrict our non-guarantor subsidiaries' ability to create, assume, incur or guarantee additional indebtedness without such non-guarantor subsidiaries guaranteeing our outstanding senior notes on a pari passu basis. affirmative covenants in the agreements relating to our current financings may interfere with our ability to obtain financings and to engage in business activities, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revolving credit agreement also requires us to comply with financial ratio maintenance covenants. under the terms of our revolving credit agreement, certain increases (or decreases) in our consolidated leverage ratio may result in an increase (or decrease) in the fees applicable to (i) outstanding borrowings under such facility and (ii) undrawn commitments under such facility, in each case, in a predetermined percentage amount (the applicable margin ). if we experience, as of a scheduled quarterly test date, an increase in our consolidated leverage ratio above a threshold amount specified in our revolving credit agreement, the interest rates on our outstanding borrowings and/or the fee rate on our unused commitments will rise by the applicable margin. consequently, any increase in our consolidated leverage ratio could result in higher debt service costs under such facility, even if we do not have borrowings outstanding under such facility. as of december 31, 2016, our consolidated leverage ratio (as defined in the revolving credit agreement) was 3.50:1.00. we are therefore currently subject to the highest applicable margin provided for under our revolving credit agreement. the rate on our unused commitments is 0.35%. 33 if we incur substantial additional indebtedness, the risks described above could be further exacerbated . we may need to incur additional indebtedness, including secured indebtedness, in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes restrict, but do not completely prohibit, us from doing so. we are permitted to borrow up to $220.0 million under our revolving credit agreement. in addition, the indentures governing our senior notes allow us to issue additional senior notes under certain circumstances. accordingly, we may be able to incur substantial additional debt from time to time under our existing debt agreements and otherwise, to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify. specifically, a high level of indebtedness could, among other things: require us to dedicate a substantial portion of our cash flows from operations or proceeds of any equity issuance or additional debt incurrence to payments on our indebtedness, reducing the availability of our cash flow to fund working capital, capital expenditures, dividend payments, development activity, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; increase our vulnerability to adverse general economic or industry conditions; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or the markets in which we operate; make us more vulnerable to increases in interest rates, as borrowings under our revolving credit agreement are at variable rates; limit our ability to obtain additional financing in the future for working capital or other purposes, such as raising the funds necessary to repurchase all of the senior notes tendered to us upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership; increase our interest expense; make it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business; and place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default under the terms of such agreements, which could result in an acceleration of repayment. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes, there could be a default under the terms of these debt agreements. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants, including meeting financial ratios and tests, may be affected by events beyond our control including prevailing economic, financial and industry conditions. as a result, there can be no assurance that we will be able to comply with these restrictions and covenants or meet such financial ratios and tests, and any such default under our debt agreements could have a material adverse effect on our business by, among other things, limiting our ability to take advantage of financings, mergers and acquisitions or other corporate opportunities. additionally, if certain events of default occur, continue or remain uncured under our debt agreements, we are required to repurchase, redeem, repay or prepay, as the case may be, the debt under such agreement prior to maturity and/or such debt could become accelerated and immediately due and payable. for example, upon the occurrence of specified changes of control in our ownership, the holders of the senior notes have the right to compel us to repurchase all or part of the 2024 senior notes, the 2025 senior notes, or the 2026 senior notes, as applicable, in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of the aggregate principal amount to be repurchased plus accrued interest. additionally, the holders of the 2024 senior notes, the 2025 senior notes, or the 2026 senior notes may, in connection with certain events of default, accelerate the principal amount of the 2024 senior notes, the 2025 senior notes, or the 2026 senior notes, as applicable, together with accrued and unpaid interest, and declare the same to be due and payable after giving the required notice. 34 likewise, under our revolving credit agreement, the lenders may, in connection with certain events of default, elect to terminate borrowing commitments and declare all outstanding borrowings, together with accrued and unpaid interest and other fees, to be due and payable. our debt agreements also contain cross-default or cross-acceleration provisions, pursuant to which a default is deemed to have occurred under such agreement if a default or acceleration occurs under another debt agreement. for example, our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes contain cross-default provisions relating to nonpayment by us or any of our subsidiaries in connection with debt aggregating $50.0 million or more (subject to certain cure periods). if any of the above events should occur, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay in full all of our outstanding indebtedness. additionally, we may not be able to amend our debt agreements or obtain needed waivers on satisfactory terms. to service our indebtedness, we will require a significant amount of cash. however, our ability to generate cash depends on many factors beyond our control. if we are unable to access or generate a sufficient amount of cash, our financial condition and results of operations could be negatively impacted. our ability to make payments on our indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate and access cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. we cannot assure you that we will maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. our business may not generate sufficient cash flow from operations and we may not have available to us future borrowings in an amount sufficient to enable us to pay our indebtedness or to fund our other liquidity needs. in these circumstances, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity. however, we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. absent sufficient cash flow in the u.s. and the ability to refinance, we could also be forced to sell assets or to repatriate cash to the u.s. to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. however, the terms of our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. accordingly, we may not be able to sell assets or access cash outside the u.s. quickly enough to generate sufficient amounts to enable us to meet our obligations on our indebtedness. additionally, the repatriation of cash to the u.s. could result in additional taxes. increased costs of financing, a reduction in the availability of short-term and long-term funding and access to capital, fluctuations in the levels of interest rates and inflation, could materially adversely affect our liquidity, operating expenses or results of operations. at december 31, 2016, we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit agreement and all of our outstanding long-term debt was subject to a fixed interest rate. adverse conditions in the domestic and global financial markets could, however, increase our costs for additional financing and negatively affect our ability to refinance, repurchase, redeem, repay or prepay, as the case may be, our debt at or prior to maturity, raise capital or fund other types of obligations. additionally, we may face increased financing costs if we are no longer able to deduct interest paid on our borrowings if there are changes to domestic and international tax laws. see we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions below. our access to capital is also impacted by changes in interest rates and inflation, which could restrict the availability to us of short-term and long-term funding. recent interest rates in the u.s. have been at historically low levels, and increases in these rates could increase our interest expense and reduce our funds available for operations and other purposes with respect to newly incurred debt, or borrowings, if any. additionally, any downgrades to our credit rating or outlook may increase the cost, and reduce the availability, of financing. see a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition below. if we borrow under our revolving credit agreement, such indebtedness would bear interest at fluctuating interest rates, primarily based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ) for deposits of u.s. dollars. libor tends to fluctuate based on general economic conditions, general interest rates, federal reserve rates and the supply 35 of and demand for credit in the london interbank market. increases in the interest rate generally, and particularly when coupled with any significant variable rate indebtedness, could materially adversely impact our interest expenses. to the extent we borrow under our revolving credit agreement, we are not required to enter into interest rate swaps to hedge such indebtedness. if we decide not to enter into hedges on such indebtedness, our interest expense on such indebtedness will fluctuate based on libor or other variable interest rates. consequently, we may have difficulties servicing such unhedged indebtedness and funding our other fixed costs, and our available cash flow for general corporate requirements may be materially adversely affected . if we do enter into interest rate swap agreements, developing an effective strategy for movements in interest rates is complex, and no strategy can completely insulate us from risks associated with such fluctuations. in addition, the counterparty to a derivative instrument could default on its obligation thereby exposing us to credit risk. further, we may have to repay certain costs, such as transaction fees or brokerage costs, if a derivative instrument is terminated by us. finally, our interest rate risk management activities could expose us to substantial losses if interest rates move materially differently from our expectations. as a result, our interest rate hedging activities may not effectively manage our interest rate sensitivity or have the desired beneficial impact on our financial condition or results of operations. a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. our credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our common stock or outstanding debt. our outstanding debt under the senior notes, which amounts to an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.1 billion, currently has a non-investment grade rating. any rating assigned to such debt is subject to ongoing evaluation by the credit rating agencies and could be lowered or withdrawn entirely at any time by such agency if, in the agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. such future circumstances include, but are not limited to, adverse changes to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, or revisions to our corporate strategy pertaining to capitalization or leverage. for example, on july 28, 2015, the board of directors authorized corporate action that led to a change in the company's target leverage and interest expense, allowing for the issuance of our 2025 senior notes on august 13, 2015. following the board of directors' authorization, one of the ratings agencies described the increase as substantially higher than current leverage levels and as a result downgraded our credit rating. this recent downgrade, and any further downgrade, could adversely affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. in addition, our debt covenants contain certain obligations that are triggered by a change in our credit rating. the senior notes contain covenants that require the company to offer to repurchase the 2024 senior notes, the 2025 senior notes, or the 2026 senior notes as applicable, in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of their par value, in the event of a change of control of the company or disposition of substantially all of the company's assets. the company is obligated to make such repurchase offer to noteholders if the following two conditions are met at the time of, or as a result of, such change of control or asset sale transaction: (i) the senior notes are rated below investment grade by each rating agency that rates the senior notes and (ii) the senior notes are downgraded by any rating agency. any adverse change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity and future growth through transactions in which we rely on the ability to receive debt capital at an advantageous cost and on favorable terms. accordingly, actual or anticipated changes or downgrades to or withdrawal of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review or have been assigned a negative outlook, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls, customs duties, sanctions compliance, tax penalties, levies or assessments, broad 36 regulatory discretion and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability in certain of the countries or regions in which we conduct operations. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the u.s. and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. for example, as of december 31, 2016, 56.2% of our employees were located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations . additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the u.s., we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and esg and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the u.s. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign governments and their officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ) and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income or indirect taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. 37 we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities . our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $1,903.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2016. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually or when evidence of potential impairment exists. intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. these impairment tests are based on several factors requiring management's judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. in connection with our initial public offering and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. risks related to ownership of our common stock the market price of our common stock may be volatile, which could result in substantial losses. the market price of our common stock is likely to fluctuate in the future for a variety of factors, some of which are beyond our control. one possible outcome of such fluctuation could be a decline in the value of your investment. for example, some of the factors that may cause the market price of our common stock to fluctuate include: fluctuations in our quarterly financial results or the quarterly financial results of companies perceived to be similar to us; changes in or failure to meet guidance or long-term targets provided by the company with respect to financial and operating metrics; changes in operating margins; declines in the value of aum in etfs linked to msci indexes; loss of key clients (see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of their funds linked to msci indexes or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above); changes in estimates of our financial results or recommendations by securities analysts; failure of any of our products to achieve or maintain market acceptance; failure to produce or distribute our products; changes in market valuations of similar companies; success of competitive products; 38 changes in our capital structure, such as future issuances of securities or the incurrence of additional debt; changes in our dividend policy or stock repurchase program; announcements by us or our competitors of significant products, contracts, acquisitions or strategic alliances; litigation involving our company, our general industry or both; changes in or departures of key personnel; investors' general perception of us, including any perception of misuse of sensitive information; changes in general economic, political, industry and market conditions in one or more significant regions around the world; and changes in regulatory developments in the u.s., foreign countries or both and changes in other dynamics. in addition, if the market for stocks in our industry, or the stock market in general, experiences a loss of investor confidence, the trading price of our common stock could decline for reasons unrelated to our business, financial condition or results of operations. if any of the foregoing occurs, it could cause our stock price to fall and may expose us to lawsuits that, even if unsuccessful, could be costly to defend and a distraction to management. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance or long-term targets that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance and long-term targets to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to manage our expenses, generate free cash flow, achieve a certain effective tax rate, access cash generated outside of the u.s. and achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance and long-term targets provide investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance and long-term targets are based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance or achieve the long-term targets that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year or long-term targets over time, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. future sales of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress our common stock price. sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock, or the perception that such sales may occur, could depress the market price of our common stock. this would include sales of our common stock underlying restricted shares of common stock and options to purchase shares of common stock granted in connection with our initial public offering and pursuant to our equity incentive compensation plans. the following table presents the number of shares of common stock issued under each of our equity incentive compensation plans as of december 31, 2016. 39 equity compensation plans number of issued shares of common stock as of december 31, 2016 msci inc. 2016 omnibus plan 420 msci amended and restated 2007 equity incentive compensation plan 8,481,329 msci inc. 2016 non-employee directors compensation plan 2,855 msci inc. independent directors' equity compensation plan 216,210 rmg plans (1) 3,930,795 (1) consists of the riskmetrics group, inc. 2000 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2004 stock option plan, riskmetrics group, inc. 2007 omnibus incentive compensation plan and the institutional shareholder services holdings, inc. equity incentive plan. for additional information on our equity compensation plans, see part ii, item 5. market for registrant's common equity, related stockholder matters and issuer purchases of equity equity compensation plans and note 8, shareholders' equity of the notes to the consolidated financial statements included herein. as of february 17, 2017, 90,545,374 shares of our common stock were outstanding and freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the securities act of 1933, as amended, by persons other than our affiliates within the meaning of rule 144 under the securities act. in the future, we may also issue additional shares of our common stock in connection with investments and acquisitions. the amount of our common stock issued in connection with an investment or acquisition could constitute a material portion of the outstanding common stock. provisions in our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law might discourage, delay or prevent a change of control of our company or changes in our management and, therefore, depress the trading price of our common stock. provisions of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated by-laws and delaware law may discourage, delay or prevent a merger, acquisition or other change in control that shareholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which you might otherwise receive a premium for your shares of our common stock. these provisions may also prevent or frustrate attempts by our shareholders to replace or remove our management. these provisions include: limitations on the removal of directors; advance notice requirements for shareholder proposals and director nominations; the inability of shareholders, after a change in control, to act by written consent or to call special meetings; the ability of our board of directors to make, alter or repeal our by-laws; and the ability of our board of directors to designate the terms of and issue a new series of preferred stock without shareholder approval. generally, the amendment of our third amended and restated certificate of incorporation requires approval by our board of directors and a majority vote of shareholders. any amendment to our by-laws requires the approval of either a majority of our board of directors or holders of at least 80% of the votes entitled to be cast by the outstanding capital stock in the election of our board of directors. section 203 of the general corporation law of the state of delaware prohibits a person who acquires more than 15% but less than 85% of all classes of our outstanding voting stock without the approval of our board of directors from merging or combining with us for a period of three years, unless the merger or combination is approved by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of our outstanding voting stock not owned by such person. 40 these provisions would apply even if the proposed merger or acquisition could be considered beneficial by some shareholders. the existence of the foregoing provisions and anti-takeover measures could limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our common stock. they could also deter potential acquirers of the company, thereby reducing the likelihood that a premium would be paid for your common stock in an acquisition. we may not be able to maintain payments of dividends at current levels and the failure to do so may negatively affect the market price of our common stock. on september 17, 2014, our board of directors approved a plan to initiate a regular quarterly cash dividend to our shareholders. on october 30, 2014, we began paying regular quarterly cash dividends and have paid such dividends each quarter thereafter. on february 1, 2017, our board of directors declared our next quarterly cash dividend, in an amount of $0.28 per share of common stock, to be paid on march 15, 2017 to shareholders of record as of the close of trading on february 17, 2017. although we plan to continue to pay regular quarterly cash dividends at the target rates (currently 30%-40% of adjusted eps) established by our board of directors from time to time, there can be no assurance that we will be able to continue to do so or that we will achieve an annual dividend rate in any particular amount. our board of directors may, in its discretion, decrease the quarterly or annual rate of dividends or entirely discontinue the payment of dividends at any time if it deems such action to be in the best interests of the company and our shareholders. our cash dividend policy is based upon our board of directors' assessment of our financial condition and the general business environment in which we operate at the time of declaration. any future declaration and payment of cash dividends to our shareholders depends on the assessment of a number of factors, some of which are beyond our control, and a change in any one or more factors could affect our dividend policy. these factors include: our results of operations and liquidity; future prospects for earnings and cash flows; our available cash on hand and anticipated cash needs; the level and timing of capital expenditures, principal repayments and other capital needs; our ability to comply with current or future financial and negative covenants that limit our ability to pay dividends and make certain other restricted payments (including the incurrence covenants contained in our revolving credit agreement and the indentures governing our senior notes); tax treatment of dividends in the u.s.; legal restrictions on the payment of dividends and other provisions of law in any applicable jurisdiction; and any other factors that our board of directors may deem relevant in light of the prevailing conditions at the time of such assessment. as a result, we can give no assurance that we will in the future choose or be able to declare or pay a cash dividend, maintain our current level of dividends or increase them over time. our failure to declare or pay a dividend, a reduction in the level of such dividend or the discontinuance of such dividend could materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock. the share repurchase programs approved by our board of directors may not result in enhanced value to shareholders and may negatively affect our share price. on october 26, 2016, the board of directors approved an additional stock repurchase program authorizing the purchase of up to $750.0 million worth of shares of our common stock (together with the $330.3 million authorization remaining under the 2015 repurchase program, the 2016 repurchase program ). as of december 31, 2016, the remaining authorization under the 2016 program was approximately $870.0 million. share repurchases made pursuant to the 2016 repurchase program may take place in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time based on market and other conditions. this authorization may be modified, suspended or terminated by the board of directors at any time without prior notice. the 2016 repurchase program carries risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, that the authorized purchases will not be completed within the expected timing or will not be made at the best possible price. additionally, we are permitted to, and may, discontinue the 2016 repurchase program at any time, including, without limitation, upon determining that we have insufficient cash flows or surplus levels required by delaware law to continue to execute such program. any such discontinuation or inability to continue to execute the 2016 repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to decline. accordingly, there can be no assurance that we will pursue or be successful in completing the execution of the 2016 repurchase program or any future repurchase program. additionally, the existence of a share repurchase program could cause the market price of our common stock to be higher than it would be in the absence of such a program and could potentially reduce the market liquidity for our shares. as a result, any 41 repurchase program may not ultimately result in enhanced value to our shareholders and may not prove to be the best use of our cash resources . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 82 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, 16.9% and 17.8%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 16.9% of non-u.s. dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2016, 35.5% was in british pounds sterling, 34.4% was in euros and 24.9% was in japanese yen. of the 17.8% of non-u.s. dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2015, 37.0% was in british pounds sterling, 35.8% was in euros and 21.6% was in japanese yen. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 18.3% and 18.4% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product's assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 38.3% and 41.3% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, swiss francs, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars, euros, mexican pesos and chinese yuan. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss resulted from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $0.2 million, $2.2 million and $3.0 million for the years ended december 31, 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively.risk factors 16 risk factors legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights below. company history on november 15, 2017, msci celebrated ten years as a public company listed on the new york stock exchange. the following is a summary of material events in the company's history: 1969 capital group international pioneered the development of global equity indexes and began licensing its first equity indexes in 1969. 1998 we were incorporated in 1998. our only two shareholders were morgan stanley and capital group international. 11 2004 in june 2004, we acquired barra, llc (formerly barra, inc., barra ), a provider of portfolio risk analytics tools that launched its first risk analytics products in 1975. this broadened our product range beyond indexes. 2007 in november 2007, we completed our initial public offering. 2008 in april 2008, capital group international divested its ownership position. 2009 in may 2009, morgan stanley divested its ownership position and we became a fully independent, stand-alone public company. 2010 in june 2010, we acquired riskmetrics group, inc. ( riskmetrics ), a leading provider of risk management products and services. in addition to this core product line, riskmetrics owned institutional shareholder services inc. ( iss ), a pioneer in the development of policy-based proxy voting recommendations and a leading provider of governance products and services. riskmetrics also owned innovest strategic value advisors, inc. and kld research and analytics ( kld research ), whose products have been integrated into our msci esg research offerings. 2012 in november 2012, we acquired real estate performance measurement group ipd group limited ( ipd ). the acquisition of ipd expanded our multi-asset class offerings by facilitating the integration of private real estate assets into our models, as well as adding real estate indexes. 2014 in april 2014, we completed the sale of iss, which was deemed not to be core to our strategy. in august 2014, we acquired governance holdings co. ( gmi ratings ), a provider of corporate governance research and ratings to institutional investors, banks, insurers, auditors, regulators and corporations seeking to incorporate esg criteria into risk assessment and decision-making. this acquisition enhanced our existing platform of esg research and tools, allowing us to deliver a more comprehensive suite of esg data, applications and services. employees we had 3,038 and 2,862 employees as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. as of december 31, 2017 and 2016, 59.0% and 56.2% of our employees, respectively, were located in emerging market centers. as of december 31, 2017 our employees were based in 21 countries in order to maintain close contact with our clients and the international markets we follow. government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec req uirements. msci limited, as the benchmark administrator for all msci equity indexes globally, applied for authorization as an eu benchmark administrator in october 2017 with the united kingdom's financial conduct authority ( uk fca ). investment property databank limited, as the administrator for all msci ipd real estate indexes (including pas benchmarks) globally, currently intends to apply for authorization as an eu benchmark administrator in the second quarter of 2019. msci esg research is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. we registered in 2012 with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. this license is currently administered by the cyberspace administration of china. see part i, item 1a. risk factors changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations . 12 executive officers name age position henry a. fernandez 59 chairman and chief executive officer c.d. baer pettit 53 president kathleen a. winters 50 chief financial officer remy briand 52 head of esg scott a. crum 61 chief human resources officer jorge mina 43 head of analytics richard j. napolitano 51 principal accounting officer and global controller laurent seyer 53 chief operating officer and chief client officer diana h. tidd 48 head of index peter j. zangari 50 global head of research and product development henry a. fernandez mr. fernandez has served as the chairman since october 2007 and as the chief executive officer ( ceo ), president and a director since 1998. before leading msci's transition to becoming a fully independent, standalone public company in 2009, he was a managing director at morgan stanley, where he worked in emerging markets product strategy, equity derivative sales and trading, mergers and acquisitions, worldwide corporate finance and mortgage finance for u.s. financial institutions. mr. fernandez worked for morgan stanley from 1983 to 1991 and from 1994 to 2009. mr. fernandez serves on the board of trustees of stanford university and the board of directors of georgetown university. he also serves on the boards of the hoover institution at stanford university, the foreign policy association, memorial sloan-kettering cancer center, catholic charities of the archdiocese of new york and the american nicaraguan foundation. mr. fernandez is the former chair of the advisory council of the stanford university graduate school of business. he holds a bachelor of arts in economics from georgetown university, an m.b.a. from the stanford university graduate school of business and pursued doctoral studies in economics at princeton university. c.d. baer pettit mr. pettit has served as the company's president since october 2017. as president, mr. pettit oversees the company's business functions, including client coverage, marketing, product management, research, technology and operations. he previously served as chief operating officer from 2015 to 2017, head of the product group from february 2015 to september 2015, head of index products from 2011 to 2015, head of marketing from 2005 to 2012 and head of client coverage from 2001 to 2012. prior to joining the company, mr. pettit worked for bloomberg l.p. from 1992 to 1999. mr. pettit holds a master of arts degree in history from cambridge university and a master of science degree from the school of foreign service at georgetown university. kathleen a. winters ms. winters has served as the chief financial officer since may 2016. prior to joining msci, ms. winters served as the vice president and chief financial officer of performance materials and technologies, an operating segment of honeywell international, inc. ( honeywell ) from 2012 to 2016. she served in various positions of increasing responsibility at honeywell from 2002 to 2016, including vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer, vice president of business analysis and planning, and chief financial officer of the specialty products business group. ms. winters began her career at pricewaterhousecoopers llp ( pwc ) where she served in various positions from 1989 to 2001 within the technology information communications and entertainment practice. she earned her bachelor of science degree in accounting from boston college. remy briand mr. briand has served as head of esg since june 2016. in such capacity, he is responsible for msci's esg (environmental, social and governance) offerings. mr. briand has led various aspects of the esg business since its acquisition in 2010. mr. briand is also chairman of the msci index policy committee, the body responsible for 13 oversight of all major index editorial decisions. he previously served as global head of research for the entire company where he led a team of 150 researchers designing indexes, analytics and risk models and producing esg ratings for institutional investors. he was also head of real estate from june 2016 until august 2017. prior to february 2015, mr. briand was head of index research for 10 years where he managed the expansion of the msci global indexes to cover 80 developed, emerging and frontier markets. he also initiated and led the development of msci's market leading factor indexes. mr. briand joined msci in 2001 from credit lyonnais asset management, where he was an equity portfolio manager and head of research. he began his career as a private equity analyst at credit lyonnais. he holds an msc in computer sciences from insa (lyon) and an m.b.a from hec (paris). scott a. crum mr. crum has served as the chief human resources officer since april 2014. prior to joining msci, mr. crum served as global head of human resources for four publicly traded companies. mr. crum worked for avon products, inc. as senior vice president of human resources and chief people officer from september 2012 to may 2013. from july 2010 to june 2012, mr. crum served as senior vice president and chief people officer of motorola mobility holdings, inc., one of two publicly traded companies formally created when motorola inc. split in january 2011 until it was acquired by google. prior to that, he served as the senior vice president and director of human resources of itt corporation from september 2002 to july 2010 and senior vice president of administration and employee resources at general instruments corp. from 1997 to 2000. mr. crum holds a bachelor of business administration with a concentration in industrial relations from southern methodist university. jorge mina mr. mina has served as the head of analytics since february 2017. in this role, he is responsible for msci's equity and multi-asset class risk and portfolio management products. prior to this, he had served as head of analytics for the americas since 2015. mr. mina joined msci in 2010 following msci's acquisition of riskmetrics and served as a managing director of risk management analytics from 2010 to 2015. prior to joining msci, mr. mina served in a variety of roles at riskmetrics, including co-head of the riskmetrics business and head of research. mr. mina holds a bachelor of arts degree in actuarial sciences from the instituto tecnol gico aut nomo de m xico and a master's in financial mathematics from the university of chicago. richard j. napolitano mr. napolitano has served as the principal accounting officer since february 2014 and global controller since june 2011. prior to joining msci, mr. napolitano worked at morgan stanley from 2005 to 2011, j.p. morgan chase from 1996 to 2005 and ernst &amp; young from 1988 to 1996. at these firms, he held various positions including, among others, business unit or product chief financial officer or controller, head of external reporting and accounting policies and audit senior manager. mr. napolitano earned his bachelor of science in accounting and an m.b.a. in finance from the leonard n. stern school of business at new york university. he is also a member of the american institute of certified public accountants. laurent seyer mr. seyer has served as the company's chief operating officer since october 2017 and chief client officer since 2016. as chief operating officer and chief client officer, mr. seyer manages the company's sales, marketing, client relationship management and client service teams globally. he previously served as the global head of client coverage from 2014 to 2016. prior to joining the company, mr. seyer worked for axa investment managers in paris, most recently as global head of the client group. prior to that, he spent 24 years at societe generale in a number of leadership positions, including as ceo of lyxor asset management. mr. seyer graduated from institut d'etudes politiques of paris, where he studied law and economics. 14 diana h. tidd ms. tidd has served as the head of index since february 2016. in such capacity, she is responsible for all aspects of product management and business strategy for the msci indexes. during her tenure at msci, ms. tidd has served in a variety of roles, including head of americas client coverage for six years. prior to joining msci in 1999, ms. tidd worked at brown brothers harriman &amp; co. in boston for five years where she had roles in the risk and europe teams, before becoming head of the asia team in the global custody division. she started her career in the trust and estates division of the private bank at bankers trust co. ms. tidd serves on the board and as co-president of women in etfs and on the board of west africa village education. ms. tidd graduated with a bachelor of arts degree in political science from colgate university and received a master's degree in latin american studies from stanford university. peter j. zangari mr. zangari has served as the global head of research and product development since february 2017. in such capacity, mr. zangari leads a global team of more than 150 researchers who develop insights that help institutional investors make more informed investment decisions. he is responsible for setting the research agenda and driving integration of research into our products and services to deliver innovative solutions to investment problems. he previously served as msci's head of analytics from february 2015 to february 2017. prior to this, he served as the head of equity portfolio management from august 2011 to february 2015. prior to joining msci, mr. zangari held progressively senior-level positions at goldman sachs since 1998, most recently as the head of risk and a member of the leadership team for the quantitative investment strategies ( qis ) business of goldman sachs asset management ( gsam ). prior to joining qis, mr. zangari was responsible for building out and managing gsam's proprietary equity risk and attribution platform. mr. zangari has a bachelor of arts degree in economics from fordham university and a phd in economics, with a specialization in applied econometrics and computational statistics, from rutgers university. available information our corporate headquarters are located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com . the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. you may read and copy any materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, n.e., washington, d.c. 20549. you may obtain information about the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov . we also make available free of charge, on or through our website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage ( http://ir.msci.com ). we also use our investor relations homepage and corporate twitter account (@msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the email alert subscription section of our investor relations homepage at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm . the contents of our website, including our investor relations homepage, and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. 15 item 1a. ri sk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements on page 1 for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. risks related to our business we are dependent on third parties to supply data and software for our products and are dependent on certain vendors to distribute our data. a refusal by a key vendor to distribute our data or any loss of key outside suppliers of data or software products or reduction in the accuracy or quality of such data or products or any failure by us to comply with our vendors' licensing requirements could impair our ability to provide our clients with the data, products or services they desire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on the accuracy and quality of third-party data and software products and depend on the ability and willingness of third-party data and software providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes in order to produce and deliver our products, provide services and develop new products and services. additionally, we rely on certain third-party vendors to distribute our data to clients. while some of our vendors generate revenue in connection with distributing our data, others do not derive a direct financial benefit from doing so. should any of our key vendors refuse to distribute our data for any reason, we would need to find alternative ways to distribute our data, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if the data and software products from our suppliers have errors, are delayed, have design defects, become incompatible with future versions of our products, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, we may not be able to deliver our products and services and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. as of december 31, 2017, we relied on the data of over 200 suppliers, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. many of our data and software suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of provision of data by one or more of our significant data suppliers or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with a data provider's information could decrease the information available for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also monitor our use of third-party data and software products to comply with applicable licensing requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third-party data and software products has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased data acquisition or software costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by data or 16 software that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party data or software products increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other data or software are substantial and we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent data or software products. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, and in our largest market, the u.s. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products, including etfs and mutual funds, managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages, which are sometimes calculated as a percentage of the relevant product's total expense ratio ( ter ). additionally, competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide index-linked investment products, including etfs. the fees providers of index-linked investment products charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these managers with some providers seeking to win or retain business by charging their clients lower fees. as noted above, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in an investment product's ter. in those cases, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. moreover, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or switch to a lower fee index. for example, at least one large client ceased using msci indexes as the basis for a significant number of its index funds. additionally, clients that license our indexes to serve as the basis for listed futures and options contracts might discontinue such contracts. we have a differentiated licensing strategy for our indexes and from time-to-time experience faster growth in lower fee product areas, resulting in a lower average asset-based fee percentage for licensing our indexes. while we look to maximize the price/volume trade-off over the long-term, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. results for any given quarter could be materially adversely affected by stronger growth in aum in index-linked investment products with lower than average product fees not sufficiently off-set by growth in aum in index-linked investment products in higher than average product fees. in the instances described above, our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients multiple kinds of index-linked investment products based on the same indexes, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the use of the same index as the basis of an other type of product. if we are required to offer clients materially lower asset-based fee percentages with respect to index-linked investment products that generate fees based on the assets of such products or our largest clients cease to use our indexes, our revenues could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. clients that use our indexes as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, commonly pay us a fee based on the value of the investment product's assets. the value of an investment product's assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and cash inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. asset-based fees make up a significant portion of our revenues. they accounted for 21.7% and 18.3% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted for 55.5% and 47.4% of the total revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. volatile capital markets, which may impact whether investors choose to invest in developed or emerging markets, or in the u.s. or non-u.s. markets, as well as changing 17 investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product. for example, a trend that favors active investment management over passive investment management could lead to a decreased demand for index-linked investment products, and thus decreased revenue attributable to assets in index-linked investment products. accordingly, the value of assets in index-linked investment products can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and such volatility may be further impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are unable to offset the impact of decreased values of assets linked to index-linked investment products, including by managing our operating costs, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. see our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, including interruptions affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and the internet, which could impair our ability to provide clients with products and customer service. any resulting failures, disruptions or instability may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and its components, including our data centers, and the internet to seamlessly provide clients with products and customer service. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering, intrusions or hacking, human error, cyber-terrorism, ransomware, terrorist attacks affecting sites where we are located, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, technical breakdowns, internet failures or computer viruses could impair our systems' operations or interrupt their availability for extended periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our operations, including to our information technology platform, our electronic delivery systems or the internet, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services or to whom we distribute index and constituent data on a real time basis that is used to manage funds that replicate msci indexes, may be materially adversely affected. for example, we have in recent years experienced denial-of-service attacks. while we have implemented disaster recovery and business continuity plans, increased our protection measures in response to global cyber-attacks and been able to defend our systems against such disruptions and attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future or that our disaster recovery or business continuity plans will be effective in mitigating the risks and costs associated with the particular event that has occurred. we have also experienced unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products after we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers and may experience such interruptions and delays in the future with respect to migrations within existing data centers or to new data centers. in response to such issues, we have in the past and could again be required to provide service credits. we could also experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. we may also incur increased operating expenses to recover data, repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, and to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks. accordingly, any significant failures, disruptions or instability affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems or the internet may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, failures, or breaches. although we currently estimate that the total cost of ongoing development and implementation of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. unexpected or higher than estimated costs could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. 18 any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of client data could adversely affect our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect client data that we receive in the ordinary course of business, including sensitive and confidential client data such as material non-public information and client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems, against unauthorized data access or disclosure. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, or if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, client data could occur. such unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation may result in claims against us by our clients or regulatory inquiry or censure, which could, individually or in the aggregate, damage our brand and reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures results in a security or data privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations below. we have confidentiality policies in place regarding changes to the composition of our indexes and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of any material, non-public information regarding changes to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. we change the composition of our indexes from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our equity indexes can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indexes. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have confidentiality policies in place and have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes relating to our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies or information barrier procedures fail or we are delayed in implementing such procedures as necessary with respect to a newly acquired business and an employee inadvertently discloses, or deliberately misuses material non-public information related to one of our indexes, our reputation may suffer. clients' loss of trust and confidence in our confidentiality policies or information barrier policies and procedures could negatively impact our brand or reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. in addition, certain exchanges permit our clients to list index-linked investment products based on our equity indexes only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have information barrier procedures in place designed to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material non-public information related to our equity indexes. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our equity indexes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. increased competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger 19 competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our specialized competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. larger competitors may offer price incentives to expand their market share, and may also consolidate with one another or form joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for a narrower pool of competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies resulting from an expanded suite of products and services. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many of the markets for our products and services, including for single-purpose product companies. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors; for example, more broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. recent developments, including increases in the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information, advances in public cloud computing and the increase in open source code, as well as proprietary software in specific areas, such as pricing, high volume computing, orchestration layers for services, and visualization, have increasingly allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those resulting from weak or volatile economic conditions, may lead certain clients to reduce their overall spending on our products or services, including by seeking similar products or services at a lower cost than what we are able to provide, by consolidating their spending with fewer providers or by self-sourcing certain of their informational needs. accordingly, competitive and market pressures may result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, including as a result of client closures and consolidations, price reductions, prolonged selling and renewal cycles, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in lower revenue, gross margins and operating income. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above and part i, item 1. business competition above. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage transitions and product integrations. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of this industry and the impact of technological change on our products and services, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance, including through integration of products and services within msci and with third-party platforms, existing products and services, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. if, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate or respond or adapt to evolving technologies and changing industry standards, if we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients or cannot be integrated with third-party platforms, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated, if we misprice our new products and services, if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, or if competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are more competitive than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients' needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. for example, we have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and services and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also present execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially 20 adversely affected. see if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 27.8% and 25.7% of our total revenues, respectively. our revenue growth depends on our ability to obtain new clients and achieve and sustain a high level of renewal rates with respect to our existing subscription base and our investment product licenses. failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2017, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 11.5% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, 95.3% and 93.7%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock's etfs that are based on our indexes. if one or more of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. if we experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, application development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs, and we cannot adjust to these costs, our operating results may fluctuate significantly or our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development, marketing efforts, or capital return or allocation strategies as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage transitions and product integrations. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, skills, experience and abilities of our employees. accordingly, we believe that the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executives and other key management, research and development, sales and marketing, operations, information technology and other personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, our management and other employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 21 if our cash and long-term equity incentive compensation programs do not adequately engage our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract, engage and retain the necessary qualified personnel, the quality of our products and services as well as our ability to support and retain our customers and achieve business objectives may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any future expansion may place significant strain on our management and other resources. our expansion in the past and any future expansion, particularly in emerging market locations, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, human resources, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with prior expansion of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if in the future, we expand organically or by way of acquisition, our management will be effective in attracting, engaging and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all of our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing expansion. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. any failure to effectively manage expansion or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses below, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above, part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below and part i, item 1. business company history above. changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments with some jurisdictions regulating indexes directly. these regulations are complex, evolve frequently, and are subject to administrative interpretation and judicial construction in ways that could materially adversely affect our business. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients' businesses. on june 23, 2016, the united kingdom voted to leave the european union through the referendum of the united kingdom's membership of the european union, an event commonly referred to as brexit. brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations that affect our business. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules or regulations in various jurisdictions, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license and price our products or could impose additional costs on us. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could restrict our clients' ability to use our products and services unless we change our products and services or could otherwise impact our clients' demand for our products and services. as such, to the extent that our clients become bound by certain laws, rules or regulations, we may incur higher costs in connection with modifying our products or services at their request even in instances where we are not directly legally bound. to the extent that we rely on our clients and vendors to provide data for our products and services and certain laws, rules or regulations impact our clients' and vendors' ability to provide that data to us or regulate the fees for which such data can be provided, our ability to continue to produce our products and services or the related costs could be negatively impacted. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the regulations that most materially impact us are described below: regulation affecting benchmarks. regulation (eu) 2016/1011 on indexes used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds was 22 published on june 30, 2016 with effect on january 1, 2018. the new regulation governs index development, calculation, dissemination, governance, maintenance and recordkeeping, as well as input data licensing, collection and dissemination. because this regulation governs a new area, the full impact on our index product line is still to be determined. additionally, the european securities and markets authority ( esma ) may issue guidance with different or new interpretations with respect to the regulation or technical standards. complying with the regulation, technical standards or guidance could lead to a change in our business practices and/or our ability to offer indexes in the european union, including without limitation, by increasing our costs of doing business, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet contractual commitments to our data providers, or causing our data providers to refuse to provide data to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. msci limited, as the benchmark administrator for all msci equity indexes globally, applied for authorization as an eu benchmark administrator in october 2017 with the uk fca. under the markets in financial instruments regulation (regulation (eu) no 600/2014), where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark will be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues may license the benchmark and receive relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark for the purposes of clearing and trading. access to such licenses and information will have to be offered by the benchmark owner within three months of the request and on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms that are no less favorable than the terms offered to other trading venues unless a different basis can be objectively justified. in the event that compliance with this regulation (expected to be required in 2019) leads to a change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, increases our cost of doing business or diminishes our intellectual property rights, it could have a material adverse effect on our index product line. on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en), which are updated from time to time by esma ( guidelines ). the guidelines limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. the guidelines became effective as of february 17, 2013 with respect to newly launched ucits funds. they became effective for all ucits funds on february 17, 2014. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. to the extent that esma issues new guidance or different or new interpretations with respect to the guidelines, complying with such guidance could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations, including a material negative impact on our licensing of index data and/or our indexes as the basis of etfs and other ucits. additionally, other jurisdictions outside of europe have adopted, and others could adopt, similar concepts, proposals or regulations. on july 17, 2013, the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) published its final report on principles for financial benchmarks ( iosco principles ). the iosco principles cover conflicts of interest, benchmark quality and integrity, methodology requirements, procedures related to handling complaints, documentation requirements and audit reviews. the iosco principles require benchmark administrators to publicly disclose whether they comply with the iosco principles within 12 months of their initial publication, with such compliance subject to audit. we announced our implementation of the iosco principles on july 16, 2014 and posted our compliance statement and audit results on our website in each of july 2016 and july 2015. for 2017, we continued to rely on our 2016 compliance statement as updated in light of the regulation (eu) 2016/1011. to the extent that iosco issues new principles or different or new interpretations with respect to the existing iosco principles and/or any individual jurisdictions adopt similar, new or different concepts, proposals or regulations, complying with such principles, concepts, proposals or regulations could lead to a change in our business practices or our ability to offer our indexes, including without limitation, by increasing our costs of doing business, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet our commitments to our data providers or causing our data providers to refuse to provide data to us, any of which could have material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. 23 additionally, on january 3, 2018, rules became effective in the eu that require sell-side firms to unbundle the costs of research, and separately charge buy-side firms for execution, investment research and other advisory services. msci is not such a firm, and we rely on our clients to determine whether their use of our products and services falls within the definition of investment research, and from which budget our fees are to be paid. the impact of these decisions on our clients' budgets and the ongoing uncertainty around the application of the rules has led to and could continue to lead to delays in the execution of agreements and the potential loss of revenue in the eu, specifically for certain of our esg research products. if additional rules or interpretations are issued that expand the definition of investment research services in such a way that causes our clients in the eu to believe other of our products and services constitute investment research, these negative impacts could increase which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. data privacy legislation. changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect, manage, aggregate, store, transfer and use personal data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, storage, transfer and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting, managing, aggregating, storing, transferring or using certain types of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting, managing, aggregating, storing, transferring or using certain types of data, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' needs. most recently, the european parliament adopted the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) which will take effect in may 2018. the gdpr imposes additional operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the eu that are different than those currently in place in the eu. in addition, the gdpr will include significant penalties for non-compliance. the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, such laws, rules or regulations may limit the use and adoption of our products and services and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. investment advisers act. except with respect to certain products provided by msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, we believe that our products and services do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the investment advisers act of 1940 ( advisers act ). future developments in our product lines or changes to current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. dodd-frank act and other financial regulations. we may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. uncertainty caused by political change in the united states and europe ( e.g. , brexit and the change in presidential administration and congressional composition in the united states in 2017) heightens regulatory uncertainty. the enactment of the dodd-frank act on july 21, 2010 had a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business. however, the full effect of the dodd-frank act is still unknown given that certain rules and regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act have yet to take effect or may be largely repealed or modified. as a result of the regulatory uncertainty surrounding the dodd-frank act, complying with its existing and future requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. in some instances, in connection with the provision of data and services, we have incurred additional costs to implement processes and systems at the request of our clients to ensure that the products and services that they in turn provide to their clients using our data are compliant with the financial regulations to which our clients may be subject. to the extent that our clients are subject to increased 24 regulation, we may be indirectly impacted and could incur increased costs that could have a negative impact on the profitability of certain products. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products or services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may internally develop certain functionality contained in the products or services they currently license from us. for example, a number of our clients have obtained regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that they manage. for example, on september 20, 2016, blackrock received exemptive relief from the sec to create certain indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. similarly, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products or services unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products or services may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a growing number of asset managers and investment banks, in partnership with index providers that offer calculation agent services, or acting together with an industry group or association, have created or may create their own range of proprietary indexes, which they use to manage funds or as the basis of etfs, structured products or otc derivatives. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above and increased competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights, and third-party litigation may materially adversely affect our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. we consider many aspects of our products and services to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secret, patent, copyright and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and services. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. there is no guarantee that any trade secret, patent, copyright or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. as we have experienced, even if we attempt to protect our intellectual property rights through litigation, it may require considerable cost, time and resources to do so, and there is no guarantee that we will be successful. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and services that are the same or similar to ours. in addition, the laws of certain foreign countries in which we operate do not protect our proprietary rights to the same extent as do the laws of the u.s. also, some elements of our products and services may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks we have registered, among others, msci, barra, riskmetrics and riskmanager as trademarks or service marks in the u.s. and in certain foreign countries. when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents we currently hold 22 u.s. and foreign patents. we currently have one u.s. patent application pending. patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 25 confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients' right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we may not be able to determine with certainty whether misappropriation has occurred. likewise, we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license and other agreements' non-disclosure obligations and the availability of remedies to us in the event of a breach may vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under online licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. third-party litigation there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the u.s. and germany, regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including the governing law, the amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner. if courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. third parties may claim we infringe upon their intellectual property rights. such claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages or limit our future use of certain technologies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. from time to time, we receive claims or notices from third parties alleging infringement or potential infringement of their intellectual property rights. the number of these claims may grow. businesses operating in the financial services sector, including our competitors and potential competitors, have increasingly pursued or may consider pursuing patent protection for their technologies and business methods. if any third parties were to obtain a patent on a relevant index methodology, risk model, software application or other relevant product or process, we could be sued for infringement. furthermore, there is always a risk that third parties will sue us for infringement or misappropriation of other intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, copyrights or trade secrets. responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, and result in costly litigation or delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that 26 we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop providing or using the affected products or services or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. if any of these risks materialize, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could introduce security vulnerabilities into our internal network system, impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the use of open source code may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims, the quality of the code or the security of the code. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system through security patches and software updates, we are still vulnerable to cyber-attacks launched by those seeking to exploit vulnerabilities in such code. such cyber-attacks could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. further, some open source licenses provide that if we combine our proprietary applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary applications to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, the terms of many open source code licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties on terms that are not commercially feasible in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) portions of our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products or systems, to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or to take other remedial action that could divert resources away from our development efforts. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our products and services support the investment processes of our clients, which relate to, in the aggregate, trillions of dollars in assets. products we develop or license, including our indexes, may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. use of our products or services as part of the investment process creates the risk that our clients, or the parties whose assets are managed by our clients, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts based on what may be alleged to be even a small error or malfunction in certain of our products or services. errors or defects can exist at any point in a product's life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new methodologies and products, and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current clients, our current and future products may contain serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product or publish a methodology, we might have to delay the product or index release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we may not discover errors that affect our new or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements to correct such errors, and in certain cases it may be impracticable to correct such errors. if undetected errors exist in our products or methodologies, or if our products fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could result in harm to our brand or reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, 27 delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations and/or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy or mitigate such errors. additionally, any undetected errors, defects, malfunctions or similar problems in our products or methodologies could lead to significant failures, disruptions or slowdowns with respect to our product delivery to clients. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see certain events could lead to interruptions in our operations, including interruptions affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and the internet, which could impair our ability to provide clients with products and customer service. any resulting failures, disruptions or instability may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations above. while we have provisions in our client contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or services or delay or failure to provide services, these provisions do not always eliminate liability resulting from the occurrence of any of these events entirely and may have certain exceptions that could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. any such claims brought against us, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation or pose a significant disruption to our normal business operations. in addition, the duration or outcome of such claims and lawsuits is difficult if not impossible to predict, which could further exacerbate the adverse effect they may have on our business operations. our business is dependent on our clients' continued investment in equity securities as well as the measurement of the performance of our clients' equity investments against equity benchmarks. if investment in equity markets declines, if our clients significantly reduce their investments in equity securities, or if they discontinue the use of equity benchmarks to measure performance, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. volatility in equity markets over an extended period or other factors may lead to an overall decline in the viability of such markets, which could reduce new business opportunities for us and our clients. to the extent our clients significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, the demand for our equity products would likely decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. additionally, while we offer products and services to both active and passive investment managers, an economic trend that significantly favors either active investment management or passive investment management could lead to a decrease in our revenues that would not be fully offset by revenues generated from products and services sold to passive or active investment managers. see our revenues attributable to asset-based fees may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets. a decrease in our revenues attributable to these fees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. additionally, our equity indexes serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our equity indexes could decrease. any such decrease in demand for our equity indexes could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, execute and realize synergies from acquisitions, or if we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our growth strategy, we seek to be a disciplined acquirer, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that 28 our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including: incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or expected cost reductions or other synergies expected to be realized as a result of acquiring operations or assets; failure to integrate the operations or management of any acquired operations or assets successfully and on a timely and cost effective basis; failure to achieve assumed synergies; insufficient knowledge of the operations and markets of acquired businesses, including where the acquired company operates in many countries and in markets with which we have limited experience; increased debt, which may be incurred under terms less favorable than those associated with our current debt and which may, among other things, reduce our free cash flow and increase our risk of default; dilution of our common stock; loss of key personnel; diversion of management's attention from existing operations or other priorities; and inability to secure, on terms we find acceptable, sufficient financing that may be required for any such acquisition or investment. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition-related activity within a limited period of time, the possibility of occurrence of these risks would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, 13.4% and 16.9%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 13.4% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2017, 39.6% was in euros, 27.3% was in japanese yen and 26.8% was in british pounds sterling. of the 16.9% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2016, 35.5% was in british pounds sterling, 34.4% was in euros, and 24.9% was in japanese yen. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 21.7% and 18.3% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product's assets, of which approximately two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 36.9% and 38.3% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, 29 swiss francs, euros, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars, chinese yuan and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances were remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss resulted from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $2.2 million and $0.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we are currently party to or may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase or decrease in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates may correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. while the full effects of brexit will not be known for some time, the brexit vote caused significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound sterling. the weaker british pound sterling means that revenues earned in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar revenues. the weaker british pound sterling also means that expenses incurred in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar expenses. the weaker british pound sterling could also impair the purchasing power of our clients and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. the fall in the british pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar, and the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to a number of currencies including the british pound sterling, could have significant impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2017, we had $2.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness in the form of senior unsecured notes (collectively, the senior notes ). we also maintain a $220.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the revolving credit agreement ), which was undrawn as of december 31, 2017. the revolving credit agreement is subject to an unused commitment fee of 0.35%. we recognized an interest expense associated with the senior notes and the revolving credit agreement of approximately $116.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2017. although management believes that our cash flows will be sufficient to service our outstanding indebtedness, we cannot assure you that we will generate and maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. our ability to make payments on indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate and access cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or access it, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity and we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. absent sufficient cash flow and the ability to refinance, we could also be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, however, limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. we may need to incur substantial additional debt from time to time under our existing debt agreements to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify, including by making it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. 30 furthermore, the terms of our debt agreements include restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, our and our existing and future subsidiaries' financial flexibility. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default that, in some cases, if continuing, could result in the accelerated payment of our debt obligations or the termination of borrowing commitments on the part of the lenders under our revolving credit agreement. see part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for a description of the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. our credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our common stock or outstanding debt. our outstanding debt under the senior notes, which amounts to an aggregate principal amount of approximately $2.1 billion, currently has a non-investment grade rating. any rating assigned to such debt is subject to ongoing evaluation by the credit rating agencies and could be lowered or withdrawn entirely at any time by such agency if, in the agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. such future circumstances include, but are not limited to, adverse changes to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, or revisions to our corporate strategy pertaining to capitalization or leverage. for example, on july 28, 2015, the board of directors authorized corporate action that led to a change in the company's target leverage and interest expense, allowing for the issuance of our 2025 senior notes on august 13, 2015. following the board of directors' authorization, one of the ratings agencies described the increase as substantially higher than current leverage levels and as a result downgraded our credit rating. this recent downgrade, and any further downgrade, could adversely affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. in addition, our debt covenants contain certain obligations that are triggered by a change in our credit rating. the senior notes contain covenants that require the company to offer to repurchase the 2024 senior notes, the 2025 senior notes, or the 2026 senior notes as applicable, in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of their par value, in the event of a change of control of the company or disposition of substantially all of the company's assets. the company is obligated to make such repurchase offer to noteholders if the following two conditions are met at the time of, or as a result of, such change of control or asset sale transaction: (i) the senior notes are rated below investment grade by each rating agency that rates the senior notes and (ii) the senior notes are downgraded by any rating agency. any adverse change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity and future growth through transactions in which we rely on the ability to receive debt capital at an advantageous cost and on favorable terms. accordingly, actual or anticipated changes or downgrades to or withdrawal of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review or have been assigned a negative outlook, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls, customs duties, sanctions compliance, tax penalties, levies or assessments, broad regulatory discretion and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability in certain of the countries or regions in which we conduct operations. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the u.s. and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. for example, as of december 31, 2017, 59.0% of our employees were located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 31 additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. in order to penetrate markets outside of the u.s., we must provide a suite of products and services that fit the needs of the local market. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and esg and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the u.s. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may be exposed to liabilities under applicable anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or benefits or offers of payments or benefits to foreign governments and their officials and, in some cases, to employees of a business for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ) and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than fully effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income or indirect taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, withholding, property and goods and services taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. 32 uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act ( tax reform ) was enacted on december 22, 2017, and significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. the u.s. department of treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and may impact our results of operations in the period issued. tax reform requires complex computations not previously provided in u.s. tax law. further, compliance with tax reform and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. we have provided a provisional estimate on the transitional effect of tax reform in our financial statements. as additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities, as accounting treatment is clarified, as we perform additional analysis on the application of the law, and as we refine estimates in calculating the effect, we may make adjustments to provisional transitional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made throughout the allowable measurement period. in addition, we are in the process of analyzing the effects of new and complex provisions of tax reform that will have an impact on our results starting in fiscal 2018 and this analysis may change as further guidance is issued by relevant taxing authorities. furthermore, foreign governments may enact laws in response to tax reform that could result in further changes to global taxation and materially affect our financial position and results of operation. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $1,882.5 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2017. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually or when evidence of potential impairment exists. intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. these impairment tests are based on several factors requiring management's judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. in connection with our initial public offering and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance or long-term targets that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance and long-term targets to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to manage our expenses generate free cash flow, achieve a certain effective tax rate and achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance and long-term targets provide investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance and long-term targets are based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance or achieve the long-term targets that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise 33 such guidance during the year or long-term targets over time, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitat ive and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, 13.4% and 16.9%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 13.4% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2017, 39.6% was in euros, 27.3% was in japanese yen and 26.8% was in british pounds sterling. of the 16.9% of non-u.s. dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2016, 35.5% was in british pounds sterling, 34.4% was in euros and 24.9% was in japanese yen. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 21.7% and 18.3% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product's assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 36.9% and 38.3% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, swiss francs, euros, hungarian forints, hong kong dollars, chinese yuan and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss results from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $2.2 million, $0.2 million and $2.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 74risk factors 14 risk factors below. employees we had 3,112 and 3,038 employees as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, 61.4% and 59.0% of our employees, respectively, were located in emerging market centers. as of december 31, 2018 our employees were based in 21 countries in order to maintain close contact with our clients and the international markets we follow. government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec req uirements. pursuant to the european union's benchmark regulation, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority ( uk fca ) authorized msci limited (a subsidiary of msci inc.) to be the benchmark administrator for all msci equity indexes on march 5, 2018. the company is currently implementing the eu benchmark regulation for a limited set of the uk msci private real estate indexes. information about index regulation is periodically updated on our website at https://www.msci.com/index-regulation . the contents of our website, including this webpage, are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. msci esg research is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 (the advisers act ) and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. we registered in 2012 with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce 12 in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. this license is currently administered by the cyberspace administration of china. for a description of the risks associated with government regulation, see part i, item 1a. risk factors below. executive officers of the registrant name age position henry a. fernandez 60 chairman and chief executive officer c.d. baer pettit 54 president kathleen a. winters 51 chief financial officer and treasurer laurent seyer 54 chief operating officer and chief client officer scott a. crum 62 chief human resources officer there are no family relationships between any of our executive officers and any director or other executive officer of the company. henry a. fernandez mr. fernandez has served as chairman since october 2007 and as chief executive officer and a director since 1998. he also served as president from 1998 until october 2017. before leading msci's transition to becoming a fully independent, standalone public company in 2009, he was a managing director at morgan stanley, where he worked in emerging markets product strategy, equity derivative sales and trading, mergers and acquisitions, worldwide corporate finance and mortgage finance for u.s. financial institutions. mr. fernandez worked for morgan stanley from 1983 to 1991 and from 1994 to 2009. mr. fernandez also serves on the boards of directors/trustees of stanford university, king abdullah university of science and technology, memorial sloan-kettering cancer center, the foreign policy association, and catholic charities of the archdiocese of new york. mr. fernandez is the former chair of the advisory council of the stanford university graduate school of business. he holds a bachelor of arts in economics from georgetown university, an m.b.a. from the stanford university graduate school of business and pursued doctoral studies in economics at princeton university. c.d. baer pettit mr. pettit has served as the company's president since october 2017. as president, mr. pettit oversees the company's business functions, including client coverage, marketing, product management, research and product development, technology and operations. he previously served as chief operating officer from 2015 to 2017, head of the product group from february 2015 to september 2015, head of index products from 2011 to 2015, head of marketing from 2005 to 2012 and head of client coverage from 2001 to 2012. prior to joining the company, mr. pettit worked for bloomberg l.p. from 1992 to 1999. mr. pettit holds a master of arts degree in history from cambridge university and a master of science degree from the school of foreign service at georgetown university. kathleen a. winters ms. winters has served as the chief financial officer and treasurer since may 2016. prior to joining msci, ms. winters served as the vice president and chief financial officer of performance materials and technologies, an operating segment of honeywell international, inc. ( honeywell ) from 2012 to 2016. she served in various positions of increasing responsibility at honeywell from 2002 to 2016, including vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer, vice president of business analysis and planning, and chief financial officer of the specialty products business group. ms. winters began her career at pricewaterhousecoopers llp ( pwc ) where she served in various positions from 1989 to 2001 within the technology information communications and entertainment practice. she earned her bachelor of science degree in accounting from boston college. 13 laurent seyer mr. seyer has served as the company's chief operating officer since october 2017 and chief client officer since 2016. as chief operating officer and chief client officer, mr. seyer manages the company's sales, marketing, client relationship management and client service teams globally. he previously served as the global head of client coverage from 2014 to 2016. prior to joining the company, mr. seyer worked for axa investment managers in paris, most recently as global head of the client group. prior to that, he spent 24 years at societe generale in a number of leadership positions, including as ceo of lyxor asset management. mr. seyer graduated from institut d'etudes politiques of paris, where he studied law and economics. scott a. crum mr. crum has served as the chief human resources officer since april 2014. prior to joining msci, mr. crum served as global head of human resources for four publicly traded companies. mr. crum worked for avon products, inc. as senior vice president of human resources and chief people officer from 2012 to 2013. from 2010 to 2012, mr. crum served as senior vice president and chief people officer of motorola mobility holdings, inc., one of two publicly traded companies formally created when motorola inc. split in january 2011 until it was acquired by google. prior to that, he served as the senior vice president and director of human resources of itt corporation from 2002 to 2010 and senior vice president of administration and employee resources at general instruments corp. from 1997 to 2000. mr. crum holds a bachelor of business administration with a concentration in industrial relations from southern methodist university. available information our corporate headquarters is located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, 49 th floor, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com. the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge, on or through our website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage ( http://ir.msci.com ). we also use our investor relations homepage and corporate twitter account (@msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the email alert subscription section of our investor relations homepage at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm. the contents of our website, including our investor relations homepage, and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements on page 1 for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. 14 risks related to our business we are dependent on third parties to supply data and software for our products and are dependent on certain vendors to distribute our data. a refusal by a key vendor to distribute our data or any loss of key outside suppliers of data or software products or reduction in the accuracy or quality of such data or products or any failure by us to comply with our vendors' licensing requirements could impair our ability to provide our clients with the data, products or services they desire, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on the accuracy and quality of third-party data and software products and depend on the ability and willingness of third-party data and software providers to deliver and support reliable products, enhance their current products, develop new products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes to produce and deliver our products, provide services and develop new products and services. additionally, we rely on certain third-party vendors to distribute our data to clients. while some of our vendors generate revenue in connection with distributing our data, others do not derive a direct financial benefit. should any of our key vendors refuse to distribute our data for any reason, we would need to find alternative ways to distribute our data, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if the data and software products from our suppliers have errors, are delayed, have design defects, become incompatible with future versions of our products, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, we may not be able to deliver our products and services and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. as of december 31, 2018, we relied on the data of over 200 suppliers, including large volumes of data from certain stock exchanges around the world. many of our data and software suppliers compete with one another and, in some cases, with us. some of our agreements with data suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements with all of our data suppliers, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from data suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their data to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of the provision of data by one or more of our significant data suppliers or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with a data provider's information could decrease the information available for us to use (and offer our clients) and may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. although data suppliers and stock exchanges typically benefit from providing broad access to their data, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to provide our clients with the data they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we also monitor our use of third-party data and software products to comply with applicable licensing requirements. despite our efforts, our use of certain third-party data and software products has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that such third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased data acquisition or software costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by data or software that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. our operating costs could increase if license fees for third-party data or software products increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to third-party or other data or software are substantial and we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent data or software products. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 15 our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, and in our largest market, the u.s. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage for a variety of reasons. as the assets of index-linked investment products, including etfs, mutual funds and institutional accounts, managed by our clients change, they may request to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages, which are sometimes calculated as a percentage of the relevant product's total expense ratio ( ter ). additionally, competition is intense and increasing rapidly among our clients that provide index-linked investment products, including etfs. the fees providers of index-linked investment products charge their clients are one of the competitive differentiators for these managers with some providers seeking to win or retain business by charging their clients lower fees. as noted above, in many cases our fees can be affected by an increase or decrease in an investment product's ter. a reduction in the ter or an elimination of ter may negatively impact our revenues. additionally, our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to lower or eliminate aum floors (i.e., minimum asset-based fee percentages) or impose or lower aum ceilings (i.e., maximum asset-based fee percentages). such changes in our fee structure could individually, or in the aggregate, negatively impact our revenues. moreover, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or switch to a lower fee index. for example, at least one large client ceased using msci indexes as the basis for a significant number of its index funds. additionally, clients that license our indexes to serve as the basis for listed futures and options contracts might discontinue such contracts. we have a differentiated licensing strategy for our indexes and from time to time experience faster growth in lower fee product areas, resulting in a lower average asset-based fee percentage for licensing our indexes. while we look to maximize the price and volume trade-off over the long-term, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so in the future. results for any given quarter could be materially adversely affected by stronger growth in aum in index-linked investment products with lower than average product fees not sufficiently offset by growth in aum in index-linked investment products in higher than average product fees. in the instances described above, our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. finally, to the extent that an asset manager finds it beneficial to offer clients multiple kinds of index-linked investment products based on the same indexes, a shift away from use of an index as the basis of one type of product may lead to a corresponding shift away from the use of the same index as the basis of another type of product. if we are required to offer clients materially lower asset-based fee percentages with respect to index-linked investment products that generate fees based on the assets of such products or our largest clients cease to use our indexes, our revenues could be negatively impacted, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business may be affected by changes in the capital markets, particularly the equity capital markets, and is dependent on our clients' continued investment in equity securities as well as the measurement of the performance of their equity investment against equity benchmarks. if investment in equity markets declines, revenue attributable to our clients' use of our indexes or analytics products could decrease which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a significant portion of our revenues comes from our products that are focused on various aspects of managing or monitoring equity portfolios. our equity indexes serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments and are also used by clients as the basis for certain index-linked investment products, such as etfs and mutual funds, for a fee based on the value of the investment product's assets. the value of an investment product's assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and cash inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. for example, cash inflows into an etf may be offset by a decline in the performance of the etf and vice versa. asset-based fees accounted for 23.5% and 21.7% of revenues for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. these asset-based fees accounted 16 for 56.1% and 55.5% of the total revenues from our ten largest clients for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. our analytics segment offers performance attribution and portfolio management content, applications and services that provide clients with an integrated view of risk and return of their equity portfolios. additionally, equity models developed in our analytics segment are used to construct msci factor indexes. a move away from equity investing could decrease demand for such products. volatile capital markets, which may impact whether investors choose to invest in developed or emerging markets, or in the u.s. or non-u.s. markets, as well as changing investment styles, among other factors, may influence an investor's decision to invest in and maintain an investment in an index-linked investment product or lead clients to significantly deemphasize equity securities in their investment strategies, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if clients decide to measure performance on an absolute return basis instead of against an equity benchmark, the demand for our equity indexes could decrease. while we offer products and services to both active and passive investment managers, an economic trend that significantly favors active investment could lead to decreased demand for index-linked investment products or equity based investment strategies, which could decrease our revenues. accordingly, the value of assets in index-linked investment products can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and such volatility may be further impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. if we are unable to offset the impact of decreased revenues associated with our indexes and analytics products, including by managing our operating costs, our profitability could be materially adversely affected. see our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. any resulting failures, disruptions or instability of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems, or the internet, including a cybersecurity breach or cyberattack, may result in reputational harm and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems and their components, including our data centers, and the internet to seamlessly provide clients with products and customer service. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, sabotage, break-ins and similar disruptions from unauthorized changes (tampering, intrusions or hacking), human error, cyberterrorism, cybercrime, ransomware, terrorist attacks affecting sites where we are located, natural disasters, power loss, telecommunications failures, technical breakdowns, internet failures or computer viruses could impair our systems' operations or interrupt their availability for extended periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. if disruptions, failures or slowdowns occur with respect to our operations, including to our information technology platform, our electronic delivery systems or the internet, our reputation and our ability to distribute our products effectively and to serve our clients, including those clients for whom we provide managed services or to whom we distribute index and constituent data on a real time basis that is used to manage funds that replicate msci indexes, may be materially adversely affected. for example, we have in recent years experienced denial-of-service attacks. while we have been able to defend our systems against such disruptions and attacks in the past, there is no assurance that we will be able to do so successfully in the future or that our disaster recovery or business continuity plans will be effective in mitigating the risks and costs associated with the particular event that has occurred. while we have and continue to invest in risk management and information security measures, including employee training, disaster recovery and business continuity plans, the total cost of ongoing development and implementation may increase over time given enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cybersecurity breaches. although we currently estimate that the total cost of ongoing development and implementation of our disaster recovery and business continuity plans will not have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations, we cannot provide any assurance that our estimates regarding the timing and cost of implementing these plans will be accurate. any material breaches of cybersecurity or third-party reports of perceived security vulnerability to the company's systems, even if no breach has occurred, could cause the company to suffer reputational harm, loss of 17 customers and revenue, regulatory actions and scrutiny, litigation or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing could lead to unexpected or higher than estimated costs and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of data could adversely affect our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of data could adversely affect our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect data that we receive in the ordinary course of business, including sensitive and confidential client data such as material non-public information and client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems, against unauthorized data access or disclosure. the company may also be exposed to more targeted cyberattacks aimed at accessing certain information on our systems because of our prominence in the global marketplace, including client data, our esg ratings of corporate issuers and the composition of our indexes. as a result of increased cyber threats and cybersecurity and privacy regulations, clients have increasingly requested additional security measures on the products we provide and details about our internal processes and software controls, policies and procedures related to security, processing integrity and confidentiality or privacy. such requests may increase our cost of implementation and expose us to additional cybersecurity risks. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement required new or improved controls, if we experience difficulties in the implementation of our internal controls, policies or procedures or additional security measures requested by clients, if we experience cyberattacks that lead to a security or data privacy breach or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, data could occur. additionally, while we believe our internal controls, policies and procedures are currently adequate in protecting the confidentiality of data, breaches of confidentiality may still occur as a result of human error, particularly in connection with a more manual process for processing such data. such breaches, unauthorized access, disclosure or misappropriation may result in claims against us by our clients or regulatory inquiry or censure, which could, individually or in the aggregate, damage our brand and reputation and/or have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if a failure of our internal controls, policies or procedures or a cyberattack results in a security or data privacy breach, we could also incur increased operating expenses to remediate the problems caused by the breach and prevent future breaches, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations below. migration of our applications and infrastructure to new technologies, data centers and software could result in unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of our products which could impair our ability to provide clients with products and customer service. such impairment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products after we migrated certain of our applications and infrastructure to new data centers. while we have taken steps to mitigate such interruptions and delays, we cannot provide assurance that they will not occur again in the future even after extensive testing of new software and hardware. we could also experience cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services due to such interruptions and delays, which may result in decreased revenues. we may also experience unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products after adopting new technologies and software, including cloud computing, virtualization and agile software development, in place of more traditional methods of development and support. we may also incur increased operating expenses to recover data, repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, and to protect ourselves from and defend against such disruptions and attacks. accordingly, any significant failures, disruptions or instability affecting our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems or the internet 18 may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations and our insurance may not be adequate to compensate us for all losses, failures, or breaches. we have confidentiality and conflict of interest policies in place regarding index composition decisions and have implemented information barrier procedures to protect the confidentiality of any material, non-public information regarding changes to and the integrity of our equity indexes. if our confidentiality policies, conflict of interest policies or information barrier procedures fail, our reputation could be damaged and our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected we change the composition of our indexes from time to time. we believe that, in some cases, the changes we make to our equity indexes can affect the prices of constituent securities as well as products based on our indexes. our index clients rely on us to keep confidential material non-public information about changes to the future composition of an index and to protect against the misuse of that information until the change to the composition of the index is disclosed to clients. we have confidentiality policies in place and have implemented information barrier procedures to limit access to this information and to prevent the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of information regarding material non-public changes relating to our equity indexes. these policies are designed to limit dissemination of information not only between msci and the rest of the world, but also within msci. we have conflict of interest policies in place to ensure that employees act with integrity, including not putting their own personal interests or financial gain above the interests of the company and our clients. if our confidentiality policies, conflict of interest policies or information barrier procedures fail or we are delayed in implementing such procedures as necessary with respect to a newly acquired business and an employee inadvertently discloses, or deliberately misuses material non-public information related to one of our indexes in violation of such policies, our reputation may suffer. clients' loss of trust and confidence in our confidentiality policies, conflict of interest policies or information barrier policies and procedures could negatively impact our brand or reputation throughout the investment community, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. certain exchanges permit our clients to list index-linked investment products based on our equity indexes only if we provide a representation to the exchange that we have information barrier procedures in place designed to address the unauthorized disclosure and misuse of material non-public information related to our equity indexes. if an exchange determines that our information barrier procedures are not sufficient, the exchange might refuse to list or might delist investment products based on our equity indexes, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. rapidly increasing competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we face rapidly increasing competition across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our specialized competitors that are focused on a narrower product line may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. some competitors may offer price incentives or different pricing structures that are more attractive to clients to expand their market share, and may also consolidate with one another or form joint ventures or other business arrangements, which could allow for a narrower pool of competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies resulting from an expanded suite of products and services. in addition, barriers to entry may be low in many of the markets for our products and services, including for single-purpose product companies. low barriers to entry could lead to the emergence of new competitors. for example, more broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. recent developments, including increases in the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information, advances in cloud computing and the increase in open source code, as well as proprietary software in specific areas, such as pricing, high volume computing, orchestration layers for services, and visualization, have increasingly 19 allowed free or relatively inexpensive access to information sources, which has reduced barriers to entry even further. financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those resulting from weak or volatile economic conditions, may lead certain clients to reduce their overall spending on our products or services, including by seeking similar products or services at a lower cost than what we are able to provide, by consolidating their spending with fewer providers, by consolidating with other clients or by self-sourcing certain of their informational needs. accordingly, competitive and market pressures may result in fewer clients, fewer subscriptions or investment product licenses, including as a result of client closures and consolidations, price reductions, prolonged selling and renewal cycles, and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above and part i, item 1. business competition above. to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage transitions and product integrations. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we operate in an industry that is characterized by rapid technological change and evolving industry standards. due to the highly volatile and competitive nature of this industry and the impact of technological change on our products and services, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, including through integration of products and services within msci and with third-party platforms, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. if, among other things, we fail to accurately anticipate or respond or adapt to evolving technologies and changing industry standards, if we fail to anticipate and meet the needs of our clients through the successful development of new products and services, if our new products and services are not attractive to our clients or cannot be integrated with third-party platforms, if our new products do not perform as well as anticipated, if we misprice our new products and services, if the launch of new products and offering of new services is not timely, or if competitors in any business line introduce products, services, systems and processes that are more competitive than ours or that gain greater market acceptance, we could lose market share and clients to our competitors which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients' needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. for example, we have made, and need to continue to make, investments in our technology platform in order to provide competitive products and services to our clients. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and services and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also present execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations below. a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. as of december 31, 2018 and 2017, revenues from our ten largest clients accounted for 28.6% and 27.8% of our total revenues, respectively. our revenue growth depends on our ability to obtain new clients and achieve and sustain a high level of renewal rates with respect to our existing subscription base and our investment product licenses. failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, 20 financial condition and operating results. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2018, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 11.9% of our total revenues. for the fiscal years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, 95.8% and 95.3%, respectively, of the revenue from blackrock came from fees based on the assets in blackrock's etfs that are based on our indexes. a contract with blackrock from which we derive a material portion of our revenues has a term which ends in march 2020 with auto-renewal for successive one-year periods unless either party provides advanced written notice of termination. if one or more of our largest clients cancels or reduces its subscriptions or investment product licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those subscriptions or licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. see also our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees above. our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. if we experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased personnel costs, regulatory compliance costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, application development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other costs, and we cannot adjust to these costs, our operating results may fluctuate significantly or our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development, marketing efforts, or capital return or allocation strategies as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. see to remain competitive and generate customer demand, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage transitions and product integrations. failure to do so could limit our ability to maintain or grow current revenues, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above. we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, skills, experience and abilities of our employees. accordingly, we believe that the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executives and other key management, research and product development, sales and marketing, product management, operations, information technology and other personnel. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, our management and other employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our cash and long-term equity incentive compensation programs do not adequately engage our key employees or are not competitive, we may lose key personnel. if we fail to attract, engage and retain the necessary qualified personnel, the quality of our products and services as well as our ability to support and retain our customers and achieve business objectives may suffer, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any future expansion may place significant strain on our management and other resources. our expansion in the past and any future expansion, particularly in emerging market locations, has placed, and is expected to continue to place, significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, human resources, management, legal and compliance processes and 21 information systems to keep pace with the prior expansion of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if in the future, we expand organically or by way of acquisition, our management will be effective in attracting, engaging and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing expansion. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. any failure to effectively manage expansion or to effectively manage the business could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses below, we are dependent on key personnel in our professional staff for their expertise. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected above, part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below. changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. the financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments, with some jurisdictions regulating indexes directly. these regulations are complex, evolve frequently, and are subject to administrative interpretation and judicial construction in ways that could materially adversely affect our business. it is very difficult to predict the future impact of the broad and expanding legislative and regulatory requirements affecting our business and our clients' businesses. if we fail to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations, we could be subject to fines or other penalties. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules or regulations in various jurisdictions, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license and price our products or could impose additional costs on us. some changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could restrict our clients' ability to use our products and services unless we change our products and services or could otherwise impact our clients' demand for our products and services. as such, to the extent that our clients become bound by certain laws, rules or regulations, we may incur higher costs in connection with modifying our products or services at their request even in instances where we are not directly legally bound. to the extent that we rely on our clients and vendors to provide data for our products and services and certain laws, rules or regulations impact our clients' and vendors' ability or willingness to provide that data to us or regulate the fees for which such data can be provided, our ability to continue to produce our products and services or the related costs could be negatively impacted. there can be no assurance that changes in laws, rules or regulations will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the regulations that most materially impact us are described below: brexit. in march 2017, the united kingdom ( uk ) triggered article 50 and notified the european union ( eu ) of its intention of leaving the eu following the uk's june 2016 referendum vote to leave the eu (commonly referred to as brexit ). negotiations on the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu have been ongoing, with the uk due to exit the eu on march 29, 2019 (unless an extension is agreed). depending on the final terms reached between the uk and the eu, brexit could lead to legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations that affect our business. as described below, our business, particularly the index business, is subject to increasing regulation, and potential changes in eu regulation and/or additional regulation in the uk could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our business. in particular, we will need to ensure that post-brexit we are licensed to provide indexes in the eu as well as the uk under each of the eu and uk benchmark regulations by the end of the transition period set out in the regulations (by january 1, 2020). there is also uncertainty as to how the uk's access to the eu single market and the wider trading, legal, regulatory, tax and labor environments, especially in the uk and eu, will be impacted, including the resulting impact on our business and that of our clients. any such changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results because we have significant operations in europe and certain members 22 of our senior management team are based in london. for example, changes in labor and tax laws which increase the cost to our staff of living and working in the uk or the eu, in particular changes that result in increased tax obligations or changes in immigration regulations, may impact the ability to hire and retain non-uk staff in the uk or uk staff in the eu. see also we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions below. a dditionally, any changes to the passporting or other regulations relating to doing business in various eu countries by relying on a regulatory permission in the uk (or doing business in the uk by relying on a regulatory permission in an eu country) could increase our costs of doing business, or our ability to do so. a change in such regulations, or other regulations, could increase our costs of doing business, or in some cases affect our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see also our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk for additional information on the impact of brexit on our revenues and expenses that are denominated in british pounds sterling. regulation affecting benchmarks. compliance efforts associated with regulations affecting benchmarks and the related technical standards and guidance could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. in particular, compliance could lead to a change in our business practices and/or our ability to offer indexes in certain jurisdictions, including the eu, including without limitation, by increasing our costs of doing business, including direct costs paid to regulators, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet contractual commitments to our data providers, or causing our data providers to refuse to provide data to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our equity and real estate index product lines. regulation (eu) 2016/1011 on indexes used as benchmarks in financial instruments and financial contracts or to measure the performance of investment funds was published on june 30, 2016 with effect on january 1, 2018 (with a two-year transition period until january 1, 2020). the regulation governs index development, calculation, dissemination, governance, maintenance and recordkeeping, as well as input data licensing, collection and dissemination. additionally, the european securities and markets authority ( esma ) issues guidance from time to time regarding interpretations of the regulation and new proposals to amend the benchmark regulation are in process. on march 5, 2018, msci limited (a subsidiary of msci inc.) was granted authorization by the united kingdom financial conduct authority as a uk administrator for all msci equity indexes. the company is currently implementing the eu benchmark regulation for a limited set of the uk msci private real estate indexes. under the markets in financial instruments regulation (regulation (eu) no 600/2014), where the value of a financial instrument is calculated by reference to a benchmark, a person with proprietary rights to the benchmark will be required to ensure that clearing entities and trading venues may license the benchmark and receive relevant price and data feeds and information regarding the composition, methodology and pricing of the benchmark for the purposes of clearing and trading. access to such licenses and information will have to be offered by the benchmark owner within three months of the request and on fair, reasonable and non-discriminatory terms that are no less favorable than the terms offered to other trading venues unless a different basis can be objectively justified. compliance with this regulation is required by january 1, 2020. on december 18, 2012, esma published guidelines on etfs and other undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) issues (esma/2012/832en), which are updated from time to time by esma ( guidelines ). the guidelines limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of ucits funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. we have made available a client communication with respect to our policies as they relate to the guidelines. on july 17, 2013, the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) published its final report on principles for financial benchmarks ( iosco principles ). the iosco principles cover conflicts of interest, benchmark quality and integrity, methodology requirements, procedures related to handling complaints, documentation requirements and audit reviews. the iosco principles require benchmark administrators to publicly disclose whether they comply with the iosco principles within 23 12 months of their initial publication, with such compliance subject to audit. we announced our implementation of the iosco principles on july 16, 2014 and posted our adherence statements and audit results on our website in each of july 2014, 2015 and 2016. in 2017, we used those resources to implement the regulation (eu) 2016/1011 and continued to rely on our 2016 adherence statements and audit results. we posted our explanatory note and updates arising from our implementation of the regulation (eu) 2016/1011 in december 2017. for 2018, for our equity indexes, we posted our iosco adherence statement on our website in december 2018; and for our real estate indexes we continue to rely on our 2017 approach as we continue to implement the regulation (eu) 2016/1011. additionally, on january 3, 2018, under the markets in financial instruments regulation (regulation (eu) no 600/2014), rules became effective in the eu that require sell-side firms to unbundle the costs of research, and separately charge buy-side firms for execution, investment research and other advisory services. msci is not such a firm, and we rely on our clients to determine whether their use of our products and services falls within the definition of investment research, and from which budget our fees are to be paid. the impact of these decisions on our clients' budgets and the ongoing uncertainty around the application of the rules has led to and could continue to lead to delays in the execution of agreements and the potential loss of revenue in the eu, specifically for certain of our esg research products. data privacy legislation. changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect, manage, aggregate, store, transfer and use personal data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over privacy issues. restrictions could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, storage, transfer and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our cost of collecting, managing, aggregating, storing, transferring or using certain types of data could materially increase. it is also possible that we could be prohibited from collecting, managing, aggregating, storing, transferring or using certain types of data, which could materially adversely affect our ability to meet our clients' needs. most recently, california passed the consumer privacy act ( cpa ), which takes effect on january 1, 2020. the cpa regulates the processing of personal data of all californians and imposes significant penalties for non-compliance. the european parliament adopted the general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) which took effect on may 25, 2018. the gdpr imposes enhanced operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the eu and includes significant penalties for non-compliance. in japan, the act on the protection of personal information ( appi ) was recently amended and came into effect on may 30, 2017. the appi regulates the use of personal information and personal data of data subjects for business purposes without regard to whether such use is within japan. investment advisers act. except with respect to certain products provided by msci esg research and certain of its designated foreign affiliates, we believe that our products and services do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the advisers act. future developments in our product lines or changes to current laws, rules or regulations could cause this status to change. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research and certain of its subsidiaries, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. see part i, item 1. business government regulation above for additional information about similar regulations in other countries. dodd-frank act and other financial regulations. we may be materially adversely affected as a result of new or revised legislation or regulations imposed by the sec, other u.s. or foreign governmental regulatory authorities or self-regulatory organizations that supervise the financial markets around the world. uncertainty caused by political change in the united states and europe ( e.g. , brexit and the change in presidential administration in 2017 and congressional composition in the united states in 2018) heightens regulatory uncertainty. the enactment of the dodd-frank act on july 21, 2010 had a significant impact on many aspects of the way in which the financial services industry conducts business. however, the full effect of the dodd-frank act is still unknown given that certain rules and 24 regulations promulgated under the dodd-frank act have yet to take effect or may be largely repealed or modified. as a result of the regulatory uncertainty surrounding the dodd-frank act, complying with its existing and future requirements could negatively impact the business, operations and financial viability of many of our clients which, in turn, could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. in some instances, in connection with the provision of data and services, we have incurred additional costs to implement processes and systems at the request of our clients to ensure that the products and services that they in turn provide to their clients using our data are compliant with the financial regulations to which our clients may be subject. to the extent that our clients are subject to increased regulation, we may be indirectly impacted and could incur increased costs that could have a negative impact on the profitability of certain products. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products or services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may internally develop certain functionality contained in the products or services they currently license from us. for example, a number of our clients have obtained regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that they manage. for example, on september 20, 2016, blackrock received exemptive relief from the sec to create certain indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. similarly, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products or services unnecessary for them. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products or services may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a growing number of asset managers and investment banks, in partnership with index providers that offer calculation agent services, or acting together with an industry group or association, have created or may create their own range of proprietary indexes, which they use to manage funds or as the basis of etfs, structured products or over-the-counter derivatives. see a limited number of clients account for a material portion of our revenue. cancellation of subscriptions or investment product licenses by any of these clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations above and increased competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights or we may infringe upon their intellectual property rights, which, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we consider many aspects of our products and services to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademark rights, as well as contractual protections and technical measures, to protect our products and services. there is no guarantee that any trade secrets, patents, copyrights or trademark rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. existing laws of some countries in which we provide services or products may offer only limited protection of our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, third parties may still try to challenge, invalidate or circumvent our rights and protections. also, we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property and take the necessary steps to enforce our rights, which may have a material adverse impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our services and products, or the products of others that we offer to our clients, could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. from time to time, we receive claims or notices from third parties alleging infringement or potential infringement of their intellectual property rights; and the number of these claims may grow. these intellectual property claims would likely be costly to defend, could require us to pay damages, limit our future use of certain technologies, may harm our reputation and prevent us from offering some services or products. 25 pursuing intellectual property claims or responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, and result in costly litigation or delays. we may be forced to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, and there can be no assurance that we would prevail in any litigation arising from such claims if such claims are not settled. we may be required to pay damages, to stop providing or using the affected products or services or to enter into royalty and licensing agreements. there can be no assurance that any royalty or licensing agreements will be made, if at all, on terms that are commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against such third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. if any of these risks materialize, the impact of claims of intellectual property infringement could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, our competitors may also independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and services that are the same or similar to ours. also, some elements of our products and services may not be subject to intellectual property protection. trademarks and service marks when we enter a new geographic market or introduce a new product brand, there can be no assurance that our existing trademark or service mark of choice will be available. furthermore, the fact that we have registered trademarks is not an assurance that other companies may not use the same or similar names. patents patent applications can be extremely costly to process and defend. there can be no assurance that we will be issued any patents that we apply for or that any of the rights granted under any patent that we obtain will be sufficient to protect our competitive advantages. copyrights we believe our proprietary software and proprietary data are copyright protected. if a court were to determine that any of our proprietary software or proprietary data, such as our index level data, is not copyright protected, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. confidentiality and trade secrets our license agreements limit our clients' right to copy or disclose our proprietary software and data. it is possible, however, that a client might still make unauthorized copies of our proprietary software or data, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. for example, if a client who licensed a large volume of our proprietary historical data made that information publicly available, we might lose potential clients who could freely obtain a copy of the data. we also seek to protect our proprietary software and data through trade secret protection and through non-disclosure obligations with our employees. however, if an employee breaches his or her non-disclosure obligation and reveals a trade secret or other confidential information, we could lose the trade secret or confidentiality protection, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. furthermore, it may be very difficult to ascertain if a former employee is inappropriately using or disclosing our confidential or proprietary information. we have investigated suspicions that former employees have used or disclosed our confidential or proprietary information, but we may not be able to determine with certainty whether misappropriation has occurred. likewise, we cannot be certain that we are aware or in the future will be aware of every instance in which this sort of behavior may occur. additionally, the enforceability of our license and other agreements' non-disclosure obligations and the availability of remedies to us in the event of a breach may vary due to the many different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. license agreements our products are generally made available to end users on a periodic subscription basis under a license agreement signed by the client. we also permit access to some data, such as certain index information, through the internet under online licenses that are affirmatively acknowledged by the licensee or under terms of use. there can be no assurance that third parties will abide by the terms of our licenses or that all of our license agreements will be enforceable. third-party litigation there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the u.s. and germany, regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index 26 owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including the governing law, the amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner. if courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. see changes in government regulations, including the implementation of new or pending financial or operational regulations or the repeal of existing financial or operational regulations, could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations above. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. our use of open source code could introduce security vulnerabilities into our internal network system, impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the use of open source code may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims, the quality of the code or the security of the code. despite our efforts and processes to prevent breaches of our internal network system through security patches and software updates, we are still vulnerable to cyberattacks launched by those seeking to exploit vulnerabilities in such code. such cyberattacks could have a materially adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. further, some open source licenses provide that if we combine our proprietary applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary applications to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, the terms of many open source code licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the usage of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that could impose unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties on terms that are not commercially feasible in order to continue offering our products, to make generally available (in source code form) portions of our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products or systems, to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or to take other remedial action that could divert resources away from our development efforts. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our products and services support the investment processes of our clients, which relate to, in the aggregate, trillions of dollars in assets. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. use of our products or services as part of the investment process creates the risk that our clients, the parties whose assets are managed by our clients or the companies that we rate or assess in our esg segment, may pursue claims against us for very significant dollar amounts based on what may be alleged to be even a small error in our data, methodologies or analysis or malfunction in certain of our products or services. errors or defects can exist at any point in a product's life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new methodologies and products, and new versions of our products. despite internal testing and testing by current clients, our current and future products may contain errors in our data, methodologies or analysis, serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release a product or publish a methodology or analysis, we might have to delay the product or index release for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we may not discover errors that affect our new 27 or current products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements or corrections to address such errors, and in certain cases it may be impracticable to do so. if undetected errors exist in our products, data, methodologies or analysis, or if our products fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could result in harm to our brand or reputation, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations and/or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy or mitigate such errors. additionally, any undetected errors, defects, malfunctions or similar problems in our products, data, methodologies or analysis could lead to significant failures, disruptions or slowdowns with respect to our product delivery to clients. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. see any resulting failures, disruptions or instability of our information technology platform, electronic delivery systems, or the internet, including a cybersecurity breach or cyberattack, may result in reputational harm and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. above. while we have provisions in our client contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or services or delay or failure to provide services, these provisions do not always eliminate liability resulting from the occurrence of any of these events entirely and may have certain exceptions that could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments, or be invalidated by unfavorable judicial decisions or by federal, state, foreign or local laws. any such claims brought against us, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would involve a significant commitment of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation or pose a significant disruption to our normal business operations. in addition, the duration or outcome of such claims and lawsuits is difficult if not impossible to predict, which could further exacerbate the adverse effect they may have on our business operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, execute and realize synergies from acquisitions, or if we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions. as we continue pursuing selective acquisitions to support our growth strategy, we seek to be a disciplined acquirer, and there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable prices. in addition, our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions depends in part upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our business. we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses or that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate. in addition, our past and future acquisitions may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities or disrupt our operations. any acquisition could present a number of risks, including incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets, failure to achieve assumed synergies or successful integration of operations and management, increased debt associated with acquisitions, dilution of our common stock, loss of key personnel and diversion of management's attention from existing operations. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition-related activity within a limited period of time, the probability that these risks would occur would likely increase for that period. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses, operations or assets or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. for additional information on our foreign currency exchange rate risk, see part ii, item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk. 28 we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. although we believe that our guidelines and policies are reasonable and prudent, any hedging instruments that we are currently party to or may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase or decrease in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. depending on the final terms reached between the uk and the eu, brexit has and may continue to cause significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound sterling. the weaker british pound sterling means that revenues earned in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar revenues. the weaker british pound sterling also means that expenses incurred in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar expenses. the weaker british pound sterling could also impair the purchasing power of our clients and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. the fall in the british pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar, and the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to a number of currencies including the british pound sterling, could have significant impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility. as of december 31, 2018, we had $2.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness in the form of senior unsecured notes (collectively, the senior notes ). we completed a private offering of $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2024 (the 2024 senior notes ) on november 20, 2014, a private offering of $800.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.75% senior unsecured notes due 2025 (the 2025 senior notes ) on august 13, 2015, a private offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior unsecured notes due 2026 (the 2026 senior notes ) on august 4, 2016 and a private offering of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.375% senior unsecured notes due 2027 (the 2027 senior notes ) on may 18, 2018. we also maintain a $250.0 million senior unsecured revolving credit agreement (the revolving credit agreement ), which was undrawn as of december 31, 2018. the revolving credit agreement is subject to an unused commitment fee of 0.30%. we recognized an interest expense associated with the senior notes and the revolving credit agreement of approximately $133.1 million for the year ended december 31, 2018. although we believe that our cash flows will be sufficient to service our outstanding indebtedness, we cannot provide assurance that we will generate and maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. our ability to make payments on indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate and access cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or access offshore cash, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity and we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. absent sufficient cash flow from our operations and the ability to refinance, we could also be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, however, limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. we may need to incur substantial additional debt from time to time under our existing debt agreements to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify, including by making it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. 29 furthermore, the terms of our debt agreements include restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, our and our existing and future subsidiaries' financial flexibility. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default that, in some cases, if continuing, could result in the accelerated payment of our debt obligations or the termination of borrowing commitments on the part of the lenders under our revolving credit agreement. see part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for a description of the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. our credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our common stock or outstanding debt. our outstanding debt under the senior notes currently has a non-investment grade rating. any rating assigned to such debt is subject to ongoing evaluation by the credit rating agencies and could be lowered or withdrawn entirely at any time by such agency if, in the agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. such future circumstances include, but are not limited to, adverse changes to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, or revisions to our corporate strategy pertaining to capitalization or leverage. for example, on july 28, 2015, the board of directors authorized corporate action that led to a change in the company's target leverage and interest expense, allowing for the issuance of our 2025 senior notes on august 13, 2015. following the board of directors' authorization, one of the ratings agencies described the increase as substantially higher than current leverage levels and as a result downgraded our credit rating. this downgrade, and any further downgrade, could adversely affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. in addition, our debt covenants contain certain obligations that are triggered by a change in our credit rating. the senior notes contain covenants that require the company to offer to repurchase the 2024 senior notes, the 2025 senior notes, the 2026 senior notes or the 2027 senior notes, as applicable, in cash at a price equal to 101.0% of their par value, in the event of a change of control of the company or disposition of substantially all of the company's assets. the company is obligated to make such repurchase offer to noteholders if the following two conditions are met at the time of, or as a result of, such change of control or asset sale transaction: (i) the senior notes are rated below investment grade by each rating agency that rates the senior notes and (ii) the senior notes are downgraded by any rating agency. any adverse change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity and future growth through transactions in which we rely on the ability to receive debt capital at an advantageous cost and on favorable terms. accordingly, actual or anticipated changes or downgrades to or withdrawal of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review or have been assigned a negative outlook, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt. we are subject to unanticipated costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations, which could materially adversely impact our businesses. as we continue to expand our international operations, we increase our exposure to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls, customs duties, sanctions compliance, tax penalties, levies or assessments, broad regulatory discretion and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability in certain of the countries or regions in which we conduct operations. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the u.s. and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 30 additionally, the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and esg and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the u.s. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. we may be exposed to liabilities as a result of failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or benefits or offers of payments or benefits to foreign governments and their officials and, in some cases, to employees of a business for the purpose of directing, obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ) and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than fully effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, and we may be subject to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. as a global corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income or indirect taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. in particular, brexit could create uncertainty with respect to our corporate tax rate as well as the tax rates of our employees based in the uk. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, withholding, property and goods and services taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. future changes in tax law could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. 31 the 2017 u.s. tax cuts and jobs act ( tax reform ) was enacted on december 22, 2017, and significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. tax reform requires complex computations not previously provided in u.s. tax law. further, compliance with tax reform and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. our 2018 financial statements reflect the final adjustments to the provisional estimate of tax reform based on our interpretations of the current guidance. however, tax reform could be subject to potential amendments and technical corrections. the u.s. department of treasury has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and may impact our results of operations in the period issued. our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $1,826.6 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2018. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually or when evidence of potential impairment exists. intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. these impairment tests are based on several factors requiring management's judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. in connection with our initial public offering and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance or long-term targets that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance and long-term targets to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to manage our expenses, generate free cash flow, achieve a certain effective tax rate and achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance and long-term targets provide investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance and long-term targets are based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance or achieve the long-term targets that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance during the year or long-term targets over time, the market value of our common stock could be adversely affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 71 quantitat ive and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar-reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars; however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, 12.9% and 13.4%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 12.9% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2018, 42.2% was in euros, 29.4% was in japanese yen and 17.8% was in british pounds sterling. of the 13.4% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2017, 39.6% was in euros, 27.3% was in japanese yen and 26.8% was in british pounds sterling. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 23.5% and 21.7% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked 71 investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product's assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 40.4% and 36.9% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, hungarian forints, euros, hong kong dollars, swiss francs and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss results from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $0.4 million, $2.2 million and $0.2 million for the years ended december 31, 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively.risk factors 12 risk factors below. enhance data center capabilities by evaluating our data center architecture and implementing recovery strategies that ensure the stability of our data center networks. competition index. many industry participants compete with us by offering one or more indexes in similar categories. such indexes vary widely in scope, including by geographic region, business sector and risk category, and may be used by clients in a variety of ways in many different markets around the world. among our index competitors are p dow jones indices llc (a joint venture company owned by cme group, inc., cme group services llc and p global inc.) and ftse russell, a subsidiary of the london stock exchange group plc. 8 growing competition also exists from industry participants, including asset managers and investment banks, that create their own indexes, often in cooperation with index providers, which may, among other things, provide some form of calculation agent service. asset managers manage funds, including etfs, based on their proprietary indexes, and many investment banks have launched structured products or created over-the-counter derivatives based on their proprietary indexes. this is often referred to as self-indexing. analytics. our analytics offerings compete with those from a range of competitors, including qontigo (formerly axioma inc.) , blackrock solutions, bloomberg finance l.p., and factset research systems inc. additionally, some of the larger broker-dealers have developed proprietary analytics tools for their clients. similarly, some of the large global investment organizations, such as custodians, have developed internal risk management and performance analytics tools that they offer to their clients. all other. we also have a variety of competitors for our other offerings that comprise a smaller portion of our revenues, including a growing number of companies that are beginning to issue esg data, ratings or research. intellectual property, other proprietary rights and sources of data we consider many aspects of our offerings, processes and services to be proprietary. we have registered msci and other marks as trademarks or service marks in the united states and in certain other countries. we will continue to evaluate the registration of additional trademarks, service marks and copyrights as appropriate. from time to time, we also file patent applications to protect our proprietary rights. additionally, many of our offerings, processes and services require the use of intellectual property obtained from third parties. it may be necessary in the future to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of our offerings and services. the ownership of intellectual property and other proprietary rights, the implementation of certain measures to protect our intellectual property and other proprietary rights and our ability to obtain the rights to use intellectual property of third parties are important to our business and contribute in part to our overall success. we do not believe we are dependent on any one of our intellectual property rights or any one license to use third-party intellectual property. for a description of the risks associated with legal protection of our intellectual property and other rights, infringement claims and the ability to obtain or renew licenses for third-party intellectual property, see part i, item 1a. risk factors below. in addition to our intellectual property, we rely on third-party data in the creation and delivery of our products and services. for example, we require certain stock exchange data to construct equity indexes. termination of the provision of such data or exclusion from, restricted use of, or litigation in connection with, such information could decrease the information available for us to use (and offer our clients). for a description of the risks associated with our dependence on third-party data suppliers, see part i, item 1a. risk factors below. employees we had 3,396 and 3,112 employees as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. as of december 31, 2019 and 2018, 62.9% and 61.4% of our employees, respectively, were located in emerging markets. government regulation the company is subject to reporting, disclosure and recordkeeping obligations pursuant to sec req uirements. pursuant to the european union's benchmark regulation, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority ( uk fca ) authorized msci limited (a subsidiary of msci inc.) to be the benchmark administrator for applicable msci indexes. information about index regulation is periodically updated on our website at https://www.msci.com/index-regulation . the contents of our website, including this webpage, are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. 9 msci esg research llc is a registered investment adviser and must comply with the requirements of the investment advisers act of 1940 (the advisers act ) and related sec regulations. such requirements relate to, among other things, disclosure obligations, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, marketing restrictions and general anti-fraud prohibitions. it is possible that in addition to msci esg research, other entities in our corporate family may be required to register as an investment adviser under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. we registered in 2012 with the state council information office of the ministry of commerce and the state administration for industry and commerce in china as a foreign institution supplying financial information services in china. this license is currently administered by the cyberspace administration of china. for a description of the risks associated with government regulation, see part i, item 1a. risk factors below. executive officers of the registrant name age position henry a. fernandez 61 chairman and chief executive officer c.d. baer pettit 55 president and chief operating officer linda s. huber 61 chief financial officer robert j. gutowski 52 general counsel scott a. crum 63 chief human resources officer there are no family relationships between any of our executive officers and any director or other executive officer of the company. henry a. fernandez mr. fernandez has served as chairman since october 2007 and as chief executive officer and a director since 1998. he also served as president from 1998 until october 2017. before leading msci's transition to becoming a fully independent, standalone public company in 2009, he was a managing director at morgan stanley, where he worked in emerging markets product strategy, equity derivative sales and trading, mergers and acquisitions, worldwide corporate finance and mortgage finance for u.s. financial institutions. mr. fernandez worked for morgan stanley from 1983 to 1991 and from 1994 to 2009. mr. fernandez also serves on the boards of directors/trustees of stanford university, king abdullah university of science and technology, memorial sloan-kettering cancer center, the foreign policy association, and catholic charities of the archdiocese of new york. mr. fernandez is the former chair of the advisory council of the stanford university graduate school of business. he holds a bachelor of arts in economics from georgetown university, an m.b.a. from the stanford university graduate school of business and pursued doctoral studies in economics at princeton university. c.d. baer pettit mr. pettit has served as the company's president since october 2017 and the company's chief operating officer since january 2020. as president and chief operating officer, mr. pettit oversees the company's business functions, including client coverage, marketing, product management, research and product development, technology and operations. he previously served as chief operating officer from 2015 to 2017, head of the product group from february 2015 to september 2015, head of index products from 2011 to 2015, head of marketing from 2005 to 2012 and head of client coverage from 2001 to 2012. prior to joining the company, mr. pettit worked for bloomberg l.p. from 1992 to 1999. mr. pettit holds a master of arts degree in history from cambridge university and a master of science degree from the school of foreign service at georgetown university. 10 linda s. huber ms. huber has served as the chief financial officer since april 2019. as chief financial officer, ms. huber manages the company's global finance and investor relations functions. she previously served as the executive vice president and chief financial officer of moody's corporation from may 2005 to june 2018, where she had executive responsibility for the company's global finance activities, information technology, communications and corporate services functions, as well as the moody's foundation. prior to joining moody's, she served in several increasingly senior roles in financial services, having served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at u.s. trust company, a subsidiary of charles schwab company, inc. managing director at freeman co. vice president of corporate strategy and development and assistant treasurer at pepsico. vice president of the energy investment banking group at bankers trust co. and an associate in the natural resources group at the first boston corp. she also held the rank of captain in the u.s. army, where she served from 1980 to 1984. ms. huber holds an m.b.a. from the stanford graduate school of business and a b.s. degree in business and economics from lehigh university. ms. huber currently serves on the board of directors of the bank of montreal. robert j. gutowski mr. gutowski has served as the company's general counsel since january 2020. mr. gutowski previously served as the company's deputy general counsel and the head of compliance from 2010 to 2019 and the head of internal audit from 2012 to 2019. he joined msci in 2002. prior to joining msci, he was an attorney in private practice at rogers wells llp and clifford chance llp. he received his b.a. from georgetown university and his j.d. from the state university of new york at buffalo law school. scott a. crum mr. crum has served as the chief human resources officer since april 2014. prior to joining msci, mr. crum served as global head of human resources for four publicly traded companies. mr. crum worked for avon products, inc. as senior vice president of human resources and chief people officer from 2012 to 2013. from 2010 to 2012, mr. crum served as senior vice president and chief people officer of motorola mobility holdings, inc., one of two publicly traded companies formally created when motorola inc. split in january 2011 until it was acquired by google. prior to that, he served as the senior vice president and director of human resources of itt corporation from 2002 to 2010 and senior vice president of administration and employee resources at general instruments corp. from 1997 to 2000. mr. crum holds a bachelor of business administration with a concentration in industrial relations from southern methodist university. available information our corporate headquarters is located at 7 world trade center, 250 greenwich street, 49 th floor, new york, new york, 10007, and our telephone number is (212) 804-3900. we maintain a website on the internet at www.msci.com. the contents of our website are not a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. we file annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information that we file electronically with the sec at www.sec.gov. we also make available free of charge, on or through our website, these reports, proxy statements and other information as soon as reasonably practicable following the time they are electronically filed with or furnished to the sec. to access these, click on the sec filings link found on our investor relations homepage ( http://ir.msci.com ). we also use our investor relations homepage and corporate twitter account ( msci_inc) as channels of distribution of company information. the information we post through these channels may be deemed material. accordingly, investors should monitor these channels, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, you may automatically receive email alerts and other information about us when you enroll your email address by visiting the email alert subscription section of our investor relations homepage at http://ir.msci.com/alerts.cfm. the contents of our website, including our investor relations homepage, and social media channels are not, however, a part of or incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k. 11 item 1a. risk factors you should carefully consider the following risks and all of the other information set forth in this annual report on form 10-k. if any of the following risks actually occurs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. you should read the section titled forward-looking statements on page 1 for a description of the types of statements that are considered forward-looking statements, as well as the significance of such statements in the context of this annual report on form 10-k. this information should be read in conjunction with "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and result of operations" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes. the following discussion of risks is not all-inclusive but is designed to highlight what we believe are important factors to consider when evaluating our business and expectations. these factors could cause our future results to differ materially from our historical results and from expectations reflected in forward-looking statements. operational risks we are dependent on third parties to supply data, applications and services for our products and services and are dependent on certain vendors to distribute our products. a refusal or failure by a key vendor to distribute our products or any loss of key outside suppliers of data, applications or services or a reduction in the accuracy or quality of such data, applications or services or any failure by us to comply with our suppliers' or distributors' licensing requirements could impair our ability to provide our clients with our products and services, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we rely on third-party suppliers of data, applications and services, including data from stock exchanges ( vendor products ), and depend on the accuracy and quality of vendor products and the ability and willingness of such suppliers to deliver, support, enhance and develop new vendor products on a timely and cost-effective basis, and respond to emerging industry standards and other technological changes in order to produce, deliver and develop our products and services. if vendor products include errors, design defects, are delayed, become incompatible with future versions of our products, are unavailable on acceptable terms or are not available at all, we may not be able to deliver our products and services. some of our agreements with third party suppliers allow them to cancel on short notice and we have not completed formal agreements for all our vendor products, such as certain stock exchanges. from time to time we receive notices from third party suppliers, including stock exchanges, threatening to terminate the provision of their products or services to us, and some data suppliers, including at least one stock exchange, have terminated the provision of their data to us. termination of the provision of vendor products by one or more of our significant suppliers or exclusion from, or restricted use of, or litigation in connection with vendor products could decrease the data and materials available for us to use and deliver to our clients. in addition, some of our competitors could enter into exclusive contracts with our data suppliers, including with certain stock exchanges. if our competitors enter into such exclusive contracts, we may be precluded from receiving certain data or other materials from these suppliers or restricted in our use of such data or other materials, which would give our competitors a competitive advantage. such exclusive contracts could hinder our ability to create our products and services or to provide our clients with the data or other products or services they prefer, which could lead to a decrease in our client base. despite our efforts to comply with the licensing requirements of vendor products, our use of certain vendor products has been challenged in the past and there can be no assurance that third parties may not challenge our use in the future, resulting in increased acquisition or licensing costs, loss of rights and/or costly legal actions. our business could be materially adversely affected if we are unable to timely or effectively replace the functionality provided by vendor products that becomes unavailable or fails to operate effectively for any reason. our operating costs could increase if additional license fees are imposed or current license fees increase or the efforts to incorporate enhancements to vendor products are substantial and we are unable to negotiate acceptable licensing arrangements with these suppliers or find alternative sources of equivalent products or services. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 12 we also rely on certain third-party vendors to distribute our data to clients. while some of our vendors generate revenue in connection with distributing our data, others do not derive a direct financial benefit. should any of our key vendors refuse to distribute our data for any reason or require that we pay them fees in connection with the distribution of our data, we would need to find alternative ways to distribute our data or lose revenue in connection with paying distribution fees, which may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if we fail to attract or retain the necessary qualified personnel, including through our compensation programs, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. the development, maintenance and support of our products and services are dependent upon the knowledge, skills, experience and abilities of our employees. accordingly, we believe the success of our business depends to a significant extent upon the continued service of our executives and other key employees. although we do not believe that we are overly dependent upon any individual employee, our management and other employees may terminate their employment at any time and the loss of any of our key employees could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. if our compensation programs do not adequately engage our key employees or are not competitive, or if we fail to attract, engage and retain the necessary qualified personnel, the quality of our products and services as well as our ability to support and retain our clients and achieve business objectives may suffer. if our products contain undetected errors or fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, we may, among other things, become subject to increased costs or liability based on the use of our products or services to support our clients' investment processes, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our products and services support the investment processes of our clients, which relate to, in the aggregate, trillions of dollars in assets. products we develop or license may contain undetected errors or defects despite testing. use of our products or services as part of the investment process creates the risk that our clients, the parties whose assets are managed by our clients or the companies that we rate or assess in our esg segment may pursue claims against us based on even a small error in our data, calculations, methodologies or analysis or a malfunction or failure in our systems, products or services. errors or defects can exist at any point in a product's life cycle, but are frequently found after introduction of new products or enhancements to existing products. we continually introduce new methodologies and products, and new versions of and updates to our products. despite internal testing and in some cases testing or use by clients, our products may contain errors in our data, calculations, methodologies or analysis, including serious defects or malfunctions. if we detect any errors before we release or deliver a product or publish a methodology or analysis, we might have to suspend or delay the product release or delivery for an extended period of time while we address the problem. we may not discover errors that affect our products or enhancements until after they are deployed, and we may need to provide enhancements or corrections to address such errors, and in certain cases it may be impracticable to do so. if undetected errors exist in our products, or if our products fail to perform properly due to defects, malfunctions or similar problems, it could result in harm to our brand or reputation, significantly increased costs, lost sales, delays in commercial release, third party claims, contractual disputes, negative publicity, delays in or loss of market acceptance of our products, license terminations or renegotiations and/or unexpected expenses and diversion of resources to remedy or mitigate such errors, defects or malfunctions. the realization of any of these events could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. while we have provisions in our client contracts that are designed to limit our exposure to potential liability claims brought by our clients or third parties based on the use of our products or services or our delay or failure to provide services, these provisions could be invalidated or fail to eliminate liability resulting from the occurrence of any of these events, which could result in the provision of credits, contractual penalties and adverse monetary judgments. any such claims brought against us, even if the outcome were to be ultimately favorable to us, would require attention of our management, personnel, financial and other resources and could have a negative impact on our reputation or pose a significant disruption to our normal business operations. in addition, the duration or outcome of such claims and lawsuits is difficult to predict, which could further exacerbate the adverse effect they may have on our business operations. 13 client risks our clients that pay us a fee based on the assets under management or total expense ratio of an index-linked investment product may seek to negotiate a lower asset-based fee percentage or lower the total expense ratio of such products or may cease using our indexes, which could limit the growth of or decrease our revenues from asset-based fees. a portion of our revenues are from asset-based fees and these revenue streams are concentrated in some of our largest clients, including blackrock, and in our largest market, the u.s. our clients, including our largest clients, may seek for a variety of reasons to negotiate to pay us lower asset-based fee percentages, which are sometimes calculated as a percentage of the relevant product's total expense ratio ( ter ). additionally, competition is intense among our clients that offer or manage index-linked investment products, including etfs, and low fees are one of the competitive differentiators. where an investment product's ter determines our fees, a reduction in the ter may negatively impact our revenues. additionally, our clients, including our largest clients, may seek to lower or eliminate floors on asset-based fees (i.e., minimum asset-based fee percentages) or impose or lower ceilings on asset-based fees (i.e., maximum asset-based fee percentages). such changes affecting our fees and fee structures could individually, or in the aggregate, negatively impact our revenues. moreover, clients that have licensed our indexes to serve as the basis of index-linked investment products are generally not required to continue to use our indexes and could elect to cease offering the product or switch to a lower fee index. for example, at least one large client ceased using msci indexes as the basis for a significant number of its index funds. clients that license our indexes to serve as the basis for listed futures and options contracts might also discontinue such contracts. additionally, we have a differentiated licensing strategy for our indexes and from time to time experience faster growth from lower fee products, resulting in a lower average asset-based fee percentage from index-linked investment products. while we aim to maximize the price and volume trade-off over the long-term, there can be no assurance that we will be able to do so. results for any given quarter could be materially adversely affected by stronger growth in assets in index-linked investment products with lower than average fees not sufficiently offset by growth in assets in index-linked investment products with higher than average fees. our asset-based fees could dramatically decrease, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. finally, to the extent that multiple investment products are based on the same index, (i) assets under management in one product could shift to products that pay msci lower fee levels, (ii) the products could compete for the same assets such that none of the products becomes large enough to be successful or sustained, or (iii) the failure or discontinuance of one product (e.g., derivatives used for hedging) could have a detrimental effect on the use of the other products (e.g., etfs). cancellations or reductions by any of our largest clients could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. a material portion of our revenues is concentrated in some of our largest customers. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2019, our largest client organization by revenue, blackrock, accounted for 11.5% of our total revenues. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2018, blackrock, accounted for 11.9% of our total revenues. our revenue growth depends on our ability to obtain new clients and achieve and sustain a high level of renewal rates with respect to our existing licenses. failure to achieve one or more of these objectives could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and operating results. if one or more of our largest clients cancels or reduces its licenses and we are unsuccessful in replacing those licenses, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. our clients may become more self-sufficient, which may reduce demand for our products or services and materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. our clients may internally develop certain functionality contained in the products or services they currently license from us. for example, a number of our clients have obtained regulatory clearance to create indexes for use as the basis of etfs that they manage. for example, on september 20, 2016, blackrock received exemptive relief from the sec to create certain indexes for use as the basis of etfs that it would manage. similarly, some of our clients who currently license our risk data to analyze their portfolio risk may develop their own tools to collect data and assess risk, making our products or services unnecessary for them. a growing number of asset managers and investment banks, in partnership with index providers that offer calculation agent services, or acting together with an industry group or association, have created or may create their own range of proprietary indexes, which they use to manage funds or as the basis of etfs, structured products or over-the-counter derivatives. to the extent that our clients become more self-sufficient, demand for our products or services may be reduced, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 14 technology risks any failures, disruptions, instability or vulnerabilities in our information technology architecture, platforms, production and delivery systems, software, code, internal network, the internet or other systems or applications may cause our products to be unavailable or fail and impose delays or additional costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential and result in reputational and other harm and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we depend heavily on the capacity, reliability and security of our information technology systems and platforms and their components, including our data centers and production and delivery systems as well the internet, to create and deliver our products and service our clients. heavy use of our electronic delivery systems and other factors such as loss of service from third parties, operational failures, human error, terrorist or other attacks affecting systems or sites where we are located, climate or weather related events (e.g., natural disasters), power loss, telecommunications failures, technical breakdowns, internet failures or computer viruses could impair our systems' operations or interrupt their availability for extended periods of time. our ability to effectively use the internet may also be impaired due to infrastructure failures, service outages at third-party internet providers or increased government regulation. disruptions, failures or slowdowns that could occur with respect to our operations, including to our information technology systems and platforms, our electronic delivery systems or the internet, could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation and negatively affect our ability to distribute our products effectively and to service our clients, including delivering managed services or delivering real-time index data. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully defend against such disruptions or that our disaster recovery or business continuity plans will be effective in mitigating the risks and associated costs, which could have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results of operations. any failure to ensure and protect the confidentiality of data could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. many of our products provide for the exchange of sensitive information with our clients through a variety of media, such as the internet, applications and dedicated transmission lines. we rely on a complex system of internal processes and software controls along with policies, procedures and training to protect data that we receive in the ordinary course of business, including sensitive and confidential client data such as material non-public information and client portfolio data that may be provided to us or hosted on our systems, against unauthorized data access or disclosure. in addition, we change the composition of our indexes from time to time and we believe that, in some cases, such changes can have an indirect effect on the prices of constituent securities and on certain index-linked investment products based on our indexes as a result of trading activity related to replicating our indexes. if our internal processes, confidentiality policies, conflict of interest policies or information barrier procedures fail or are insufficient, including as a result of human error or manual processes, or if an employee purposely circumvents or violates our internal controls, policies or procedures, then unauthorized access to, or disclosure or misappropriation of, data, including material non-public or other confidential information (e.g., index composition data), our brand and reputation may suffer and we may become subject to litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other penalties, leading to a loss of client confidence, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. successful cyber-attacks and the failure of cyber-security systems and procedures could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the company's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of data and information, and on those of its third-party vendors. we and our vendors are subject to cyber risks, including cyber-attacks, such as phishing scams, hacking, tampering, intrusions, viruses, ransomware, malware and denial-of-service attacks. our and our vendors' use of mobile and cloud technologies may increase our risk for such threats. the company may be exposed to more targeted and more sophisticated cyber-attacks aimed at accessing certain information on our systems because of our prominence in the global marketplace, including client portfolio data, the composition of our indexes and msci esg research ratings of corporate issuers. any such threats may cause material interruptions or malfunctions in our or our vendors' products or services, networks, systems, websites, applications, data or data processing, or may otherwise compromise the availability, confidentiality or integrity of data or information in our possession. while the company has not experienced cyber incidents that are individually, or in the aggregate, material, the company has experienced cyber-attacks of varying degrees in the past, including denial-of-service attacks, and there can be no assurance that there will not be a material adverse effect in the future. 15 our security measures or those of our third-party providers, including any cloud-based technologies, may prove insufficient depending upon the attack or threat posed. cyber-attacks, security breaches or third-party reports of perceived security vulnerability to the company's systems, even if no breach has occurred, could damage our brand and reputation, result in litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions or other penalties, lead to loss of client confidence in our security measures and reliability, which would harm our ability to retain clients and gain new ones, and lead to financial losses. any of the foregoing could lead to unexpected or higher than estimated costs. we may also incur additional costs as a result of increasing and refining our internal processes and software controls and policies and procedures related to security, processing integrity and confidentiality or privacy. migration of our applications, systems, processes and infrastructure to new technologies, data centers, processes, platforms or applications could result in unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of our products which could impair our ability to provide clients with products and customer service. such impairment may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain products after we migrated applications and infrastructure to new data centers. while we have taken steps to mitigate such interruptions and delays, we cannot provide assurance that they will not occur again in the future even after extensive testing of new systems, processes, applications and hardware. such disruptions may result in cancellations and reduced demand for our products and services, resulting in decreased revenues. after adopting new technologies, applications and processes, such as cloud computing, virtualization and agile software development, we may experience unanticipated interruption and delay in the performance and delivery of certain of our products and services. we may also incur increased operating expenses to recover data, repair, replace or remediate systems, equipment or facilities, and to protect ourselves from such disruptions. accordingly, any significant failures, disruptions or instability affecting our information technology platform, data centers, production and delivery systems, applications, processes or the internet could negatively affect our ability to distribute our products effectively and to service our clients, damage our brand and reputation and result in litigation, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations. our use of open source code could introduce security vulnerabilities into our internal network system, impose unanticipated delays or costs in deploying our products, or impose conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products or keep them confidential. we rely on open source code to develop software and to incorporate it in our products, as well as to support our internal systems and infrastructure. the use of open source code may entail greater risks than the use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or other contractual protections regarding infringement claims, the quality of the code or the security of the code. some open source licenses provide that if we combine our proprietary applications with open source software in a certain manner, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary applications to the public. this would allow our competitors to create similar products with less development effort and time and ultimately put us at a competitive disadvantage. additionally, the terms of many open source code licenses are ambiguous and have not been interpreted by u.s. courts. accordingly, there are risks that there may be a failure in our procedures for controlling the use of open source code or that these licenses could be construed in a manner that imposes unanticipated conditions or restrictions on our ability to commercialize our products. in either event, we could be required to seek licenses from third parties on terms that are not commercially feasible, to make generally available portions of our proprietary code, to re-engineer our products or systems, to discontinue the licensing of our products if re-engineering could not be accomplished on a timely or cost-effective basis, or to take other remedial action that could divert resources away from our development efforts. any of these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. 16 strategy and growth risks our growth and profitability may not continue at the same rate as we have experienced in the past for several reasons, including if our operating costs are higher than expected, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we have experienced significant revenue and earnings growth since we began operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain the levels of growth and profitability that we have experienced in the past. if we experience higher than expected operating costs, including increased compensation costs, regulatory compliance costs, occupancy costs, selling and marketing costs, investments in geographic expansion, communication costs, travel costs, application development costs, professional fees, costs related to information technology infrastructure and other it costs, and we cannot adjust to these costs, our operating results may fluctuate significantly or our anticipated profitability may be reduced and our anticipated results of operations and financial position may be materially adversely affected. additionally, there can be no assurance that we will be as successful in our product development, marketing efforts, or capital return or allocation strategies as we have been in the past, or that such efforts will result in growth or profit margins comparable to those we have experienced in the past. our business may be affected by changes in the global capital markets, including adverse equity market conditions, volatility in the financial markets and evolving investment trends. such changes could decrease the use of our products which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. our business is impacted by economic conditions and volatility in the global capital markets. our clients use our products for a variety of investment objectives, including benchmarking and portfolio construction and esg, factor, private real estate and mac investing. volatile capital markets may impact whether investors choose to invest in developed or emerging markets, or in the u.s. or non-u.s. markets, as well as whether to adopt different investment styles. our equity indexes serve as equity benchmarks against which our clients can measure the performance of their investments and are also used by clients as the basis for certain index-linked investment products for a fee based on the value of the investment product's assets. the value of an investment product's assets may increase or decrease in response to changes in market performance and cash inflows and outflows, which could impact our revenues. our analytics segment offers performance attribution and portfolio management content, applications and services and mac models that provide clients with an integrated view of risk and return of their portfolios across markets and asset classes. additionally, equity models developed in our analytics segment are used to construct msci factor indexes. our esg segment offers esg ratings and research on companies worldwide to provide clients with an understanding of how esg factors can impact the long-term risk of their investments. such research is also used in the construction of equity and fixed income indexes, which help investors more effectively benchmark esg investment performance and manage and measure esg mandates. additionally, an increasing portion of our revenues comes from products that relate to certain investment trends, such as esg, factor and mac investing. a decline in the equity markets or a trend away from such investment trends could decrease demand for the company's related products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. competition and financial and budgetary pressures affecting clients in our industry may cause price reductions or loss of market share, which may materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. to remain competitive, we must successfully develop new and enhanced products and services and effectively manage product transitions and integrations. competition exists across all markets for our products and services. our competitors range in size from large companies with substantial resources to small, single-product businesses that are highly specialized. our larger competitors may have access to more resources and may be able to achieve greater economies of scale, and our specialized competitors may be more effective in devoting technical, marketing and financial resources to compete with us with respect to a particular product. some competitors may offer price incentives or different pricing structures that are more attractive to clients. the competitive landscape may also experience consolidation in the form of mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures or strategic partnerships, which result in a narrower pool of competitors that are better capitalized or that are able to gain a competitive advantage through synergies. 17 barriers to entry may be low or declining in many of the markets for our products and services, including for single-purpose product companies, which could lead to the emergence of new competitors. for example, more broker-dealers and data suppliers could begin developing their own proprietary risk analytics or indexes. recent developments, including increases in the availability of free or relatively inexpensive information, advances in cloud computing, increased use of open source code, as well as client development of proprietary applications in specific areas, have further reduced barriers to entry in some cases. we may experience pressures to reduce our fees on account of financial and budgetary pressures affecting our clients, including those resulting from weak or volatile economic or market conditions, may lead certain clients to reduce their overall spending on our products or services, including by seeking similar products or services at a lower cost than what we are able to provide, by consolidating their spending with fewer providers, by consolidating with other clients or by self-sourcing certain of their informational and analytical needs. accordingly, competitive and market pressures may result in fewer clients or reduced sales, including as a result of client closures and consolidations, price reductions, prolonged selling and renewal cycles and increased operating costs, such as for marketing and product development, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. to remain competitive, we must continually introduce new products and services, enhance existing products and services, including through integration of products and services within msci and with third-party platforms, and effectively generate customer demand for new and upgraded products and services. we may not be successful in developing, introducing, implementing, marketing, pricing, launching or licensing new products or enhancements on a timely or cost-effective basis or without impacting the stability and efficiency of existing products and systems. any new products and enhancements may not adequately meet the requirements of the marketplace or industry standards or achieve market acceptance. we must make long-term investments and commit significant resources before knowing whether these investments will eventually result in products and services that satisfy our clients' needs and generate revenues required to provide the desired results. from time to time, we also incur costs to integrate existing products and services and transition clients to enhanced products and services, which also present execution risks and challenges. if we are unable to effectively manage transitions to new or enhanced products and services, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. if we are unable to successfully identify, execute and realize synergies from acquisitions or strategic partnerships, or if we experience integration, financing, or other risks resulting from our acquisitions or strategic partnerships, our financial results may be materially adversely affected. an element of our growth strategy is growth through acquisitions and strategic partnerships. despite our best efforts to continue pursuing such transactions, there can be no assurance that we will be able to identify suitable strategic partners or candidates for successful acquisition at acceptable terms. our ability to achieve the expected returns and synergies from our past and future acquisitions and strategic partnerships depends, in part, upon our ability to effectively integrate the offerings, technology, sales, administrative functions and personnel of these businesses into our operations. we cannot provide assurance that we will be successful in integrating acquired businesses, that our acquired businesses will perform at the levels we anticipate or that our strategic partnerships will advance the long-term growth strategy of our company. our past and future acquisitions and strategic partnerships may subject us to unanticipated risks or liabilities, including the potential to disrupt our operations. any acquisition or strategic partnership could present a number of risks, including incorrect assumptions regarding the future results of acquired operations or assets or strategic partnerships, failure to achieve assumed synergies or successful integration of operations and management, increased debt associated with such transactions, dilution of our common stock, loss of key personnel and diversion of management's attention from existing operations. additionally, strategic partnerships may increase our reliance on third-parties, which may result in future disruptions if those partnerships are discontinued or the content or level of support provided by strategic partners is diminished. in the event that we experience a high level of acquisition- or strategic partnership-related activity within a limited period of time, the probability that these risks would occur would likely increase. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in completing acquisitions of other businesses or assets, executing strategic partnerships or if such opportunities for expansion do not arise, our brand or reputation could suffer, and our future growth, business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected. 18 our global operations and any future expansion may continue to place significant strain on our management and other resources, as well as subject us to additional, and in some cases unanticipated, risks and costs in connection with political, economic, legal, operational and other issues resulting from our increased global footprint, which could materially adversely impact our businesses. our global operations and any future expansion is expected to continue to place significant demands on our personnel, management and other resources. we must continue to improve our operational, financial, human resources, management, legal and compliance processes and information systems to keep pace with the expansion of our business. there can also be no assurance that, if in the future we expand organically or by way of acquisition, our management will be effective in attracting, engaging and retaining additional qualified personnel, including additional managers or key employees, developing effective leadership in all our locations, expanding our physical facilities and information technology infrastructure, integrating acquired businesses or otherwise managing expansion. additionally, new hires require significant training and may, in some cases, take a significant amount of time before becoming fully productive. our global operations expose us to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of possible capital controls, exchange controls, customs duties, sanctions compliance, tax penalties, levies or assessments, legal uncertainty, broad regulatory discretion and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability in certain of the countries or regions in which we conduct operations. a significant number of our employees are located in offices outside of the u.s. and a number of those employees are located in emerging market locations. for example, as of december 31, 2019, 62.9% of our employees were located in emerging market locations. the cost of establishing and maintaining these offices, including costs related to information technology infrastructure, as well as the costs of attracting, training and retaining employees in these locations may be higher, or may increase at a faster rate, than we anticipate. additionally, public health epidemics impacting the global economy and our employees, such as covid-19 that originated in china and has had reverberating effects around the world, particularly in the apac region, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. the laws and regulations in many countries applicable to our business are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine and remain compliant with the exact requirements of local laws in every market. our inability to maintain consistent internal policies and procedures across our offices and remain in compliance with local laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our reputation generally. demand for our products and services is still nascent in many parts of the world, particularly in emerging market locations. many countries have not fully developed laws and regulations regarding risk management and esg and, in many cases, institutions in these countries have not developed widely accepted best practices regarding the same. if we do not appropriately tailor our products and services to fit the needs of the local market, we may be unable to effectively grow sales of our products and services outside of the u.s. there can be no assurances that demand for our products and services will develop in these countries. any failure to effectively manage expansion or to effectively manage the business globally could damage our brand and reputation, result in increased costs and litigation and have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. legal and regulatory risks new regulations or changes to current regulations could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. failure to comply with any applicable laws, rules or regulations could damage our brand and reputation, and we may become subject to litigation, regulatory actions, sanctions, fines or other penalties. the financial services industry, within which we and many of our clients operate, is subject to extensive regulation at the federal and state levels, as well as by foreign governments, with some jurisdictions regulating indexes directly. these regulations are complex, evolve frequently and sometimes quickly and unexpectedly, and are subject to administrative interpretation and judicial construction in ways that are difficult to predict, and could materially adversely affect our 19 business and our clients' businesses. uncertainty caused by political change in the u.s., europe and asia heightens regulatory uncertainty. additionally, we may be required to comply with multiple and potentially conflicting laws, rules or regulations in various jurisdictions, which could, individually or in the aggregate, result in materially higher compliance costs to us. it is possible that laws or regulations could cause us to restrict or change the way we license and price our products and services or could impose additional costs on us. changes to the laws, rules and regulations applicable to our clients could limit our clients' ability to use our products and services or could otherwise impact our clients' demand for our products and services. as such, to the extent that our clients become subject to certain laws, rules or regulations, we may incur higher costs in connection with modifying our products or services. to the extent that we rely on our clients and vendors to provide data for our products and services and certain laws, rules or regulations impact our clients' and vendors' ability or willingness to provide that data to us or regulate the fees for which such data can be provided, our ability to continue to produce our products and services or the related costs could be negatively impacted. the regulations that most materially impact us are described below: brexit. the united kingdom ( uk ) exited the european union ( eu ) on january 31, 2020 (commonly referred to as brexit ) and is currently in the transition period under the brexit withdrawal agreement, which ends as of the end of 2020 (but could be extended). negotiations on the terms of the uk's future relationship with the eu are ongoing, leading to increased legal uncertainty. any formal agreement or other developments regarding brexit could lead to additional legal uncertainty and potentially divergent national laws and regulations that negatively affect our business and could cause additional operating obligations and increased costs for our business. in particular, we will need to ensure that post-brexit we are licensed to provide indexes in the eu as well as the uk under each of the eu and uk benchmark regulations. there is also uncertainty as to how the uk's access to the eu single market and the wider trading, legal, regulatory, tax and labor environments, especially in the uk and eu, will be impacted, including the resulting impact on our business and that of our clients. any such changes may adversely affect our operations and financial results because we have significant operations in europe and certain members of our senior management team are based in london. for example, changes in labor, immigration and tax laws could increase the cost to our staff of living and working in the uk or the eu and may impact our ability to hire and retain non-uk staff in the uk or uk staff in the eu. a change in such regulations, or other regulations, could increase our costs of doing business, or in some cases affect our ability to do business, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. regulation affecting benchmarks. compliance efforts associated with regulations affecting benchmarks and the related technical standards and guidance could have a negative impact on our business and results of operations. in particular, compliance could lead to a change in our business practices and/or our ability to offer indexes in certain jurisdictions, including the eu, including without limitation, by increasing our costs of doing business, including direct costs paid to regulators, diminishing our intellectual property rights, imposing constraints on our ability to meet contractual commitments to our data providers, or causing our data providers to refuse to provide data to us, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our index products. for example, the benchmark industry is subject to regulations in the eu, such as regulation (eu) 2016/1011 and regulation (eu) no 600/2014, as well as increased scrutiny and potential new or increased regulation in various other jurisdictions. additionally, the european securities and markets authority ( esma ) issues guidance from time to time regarding interpretations of the benchmark regulation. the esma guidelines on etfs and other ucits issues limit the types of indexes that can be used as the basis of undertakings for collective investment in transferable securities ( ucits ) funds and require, among other things, index constituents, together with their respective weightings, to be made easily accessible free of charge, such as via the internet, to investors and prospective investors on a delayed and periodic basis. the international organization of securities commissions ( iosco ) recommends that benchmark administrators, on a voluntary basis, publicly disclose whether they comply with the principles for financial benchmarks published by iosco. the heightened attention and scrutiny on benchmarks and index providers by regulators, policymakers and the media in the eu, the u.s. and other jurisdictions around the world could result 20 in negative publicity or comments about the role or influence of our company or the index industry generally, which could harm our reputation and credibility . data privacy legislation. changes in laws, rules or regulations, or consumer environments relating to privacy or information collection and use may affect our ability to collect, manage, aggregate, store, transfer and use personal data. there could be a material adverse impact on our direct marketing due to the enactment of legislation or industry regulations, or simply a change in practices, arising from public concern over privacy issues. restrictions or bans could be placed upon the collection, management, aggregation, storage, transfer and use of information that is currently legally available, in which case our costs related to handling information could increase materially. recently, california passed the california consumer privacy act ( ccpa ), which took effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa regulates the processing of personal data of all californians and imposes significant penalties for non-compliance. the european general data protection regulation imposes enhanced operational requirements for companies that receive or process personal data of residents of the eu and includes significant penalties for non-compliance. in japan, the act on the protection of personal information ( appi ) regulates the use of personal information and personal data of data subjects for business purposes without regard to whether such use is within japan. in addition, other jurisdictions, including china and india, are considering imposing or have already imposed additional restrictions. investment advisers act. except with respect to certain products provided by msci esg research llc and certain of its designated foreign affiliates, we believe that our products and services do not constitute or provide investment advice as contemplated by the advisers act. the advisers act imposes fiduciary duties, recordkeeping and reporting requirements, disclosure requirements, limitations on agency and principal transactions between an adviser and advisory clients, as well as general anti-fraud prohibitions. future developments in our product lines or changes to current laws, rules, regulations or interpretations could cause this status to change, requiring other entities in our corporate family to register as investment advisers under the advisers act or comply with similar laws or requirements in states or foreign jurisdictions. see part i, item 1. business government regulation above for information about similar regulations in other countries. in some instances, in connection with the provision of data and services, we have incurred additional costs to implement processes and systems at the request of our clients to ensure that the products and services that they in turn provide to their clients using our data are compliant with the financial regulations to which our clients may be subject. to the extent that our clients are subject to increased regulation, we may be indirectly impacted and could incur increased costs that could have a negative impact on the profitability of certain products. additionally, there has been increased attention on and scrutiny of esg ratings providers by regulators, policymakers and the media, which could create negative publicity that could harm our reputation or credibility as well as result in new or additional regulation that could increase our costs and have a negative impact on profitability. legal protections for our intellectual property rights and other rights may not be sufficient or available to protect our competitive advantages. third parties may infringe on our intellectual property rights or we may infringe upon their intellectual property rights, which, in each case, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. we consider many aspects of our products and services to be proprietary. we rely primarily on a combination of trade secrets, patents, copyrights and trademark rights, as well as technical measures and contractual protections, such as non-disclosure obligations, to protect our products and services. despite our best efforts, we cannot be certain that the steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property rights, and the rights of those from whom we license intellectual property, are adequate to prevent unauthorized use, misappropriation, distribution or theft of our intellectual property. intellectual property laws in various jurisdictions in which we operate are subject to change at any time and could further restrict our ability to protect our intellectual property rights. the enforceability of intellectual property 21 rights and obligations under our agreements, as well as the availability of remedies in the event of a breach, may vary due to the different jurisdictions in which our clients and employees are located. failure to protect the company's intellectual property adequately could harm its brand and reputation and affect the company's ability to compete effectively. there is no guarantee that any intellectual property rights that we may obtain will protect our competitive advantages, nor is there any assurance that our competitors will not infringe upon our rights. furthermore, our competitors may independently develop and patent or otherwise protect products and services that are the same or similar to ours. we may be unable to detect the unauthorized use of our intellectual property, or disclosure of confidential information, and take the necessary steps to enforce our rights. in addition, our services and products, or the products of others that we offer to our clients, could infringe upon the intellectual property rights of third parties. pursuing intellectual property claims or responding to intellectual property claims, regardless of merit, can consume valuable time, and result in costly litigation or delays, and there is no guarantee that the company will be successful. from time to time, we receive claims or notices from third parties alleging infringement or potential infringement of their intellectual property rights and the number of these claims may grow. these intellectual property claims would likely be costly to defend and could require us to pay damages, limit our future use of certain technologies, harm our brand and reputation, significantly increase our costs and prevent us from offering some services or products. we may need to settle such claims on unfavorable terms, pay damages, stop providing or using the affected products or services or enter into royalty and licensing agreements, which may include terms that are not commercially acceptable to us. from time to time we receive notices calling upon us to defend partners, clients, suppliers or distributors against third-party claims under indemnification clauses in our contracts. if any of these risks materialize, they could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. there have been a number of lawsuits in multiple jurisdictions, including in the u.s. and germany, regarding whether issuers of index-linked investment products are required to obtain a license from the index owner or whether issuers may issue investment products based on publicly-available index level data without obtaining permission from (or making payment to) the index owner. the outcome of these cases depends on a number of factors, including the governing law, the amount of information about the index available without a license and the other particular facts and circumstances of the cases. in some instances, the results have been unfavorable to the index owner. if courts or regulators or other governmental bodies in relevant jurisdictions determine that a license is not required to issue investment products linked to indexes, this could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. it might also lead to changes in current industry practices such that we would no longer make our index level data publicly available, such as via our website or news media, on a timely basis. we may be exposed to liabilities as a result of failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and any determination that we violated these laws could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are subject to various anti-corruption laws that prohibit improper payments or benefits or offers of payments or benefits to foreign governments and their officials and, in some cases, to employees of a business for the purpose of directing, obtaining or retaining business. we have business in countries and regions which are less developed and are generally recognized as potentially more corrupt business environments. our activities in these countries create the risk of unauthorized payments or offers of payments by one of our employees or agents that could be in violation of various anti-corruption laws including the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the fcpa ) and the u.k. bribery act 2010. we have implemented safeguards and policies to discourage these practices by our employees and agents. however, our existing safeguards and any future improvements may prove to be less than fully effective and our employees or agents may engage in conduct for which we might be held responsible. if employees violate our policies or we fail to maintain adequate record-keeping and internal accounting practices to accurately record our transactions we may be subject to regulatory sanctions. violations of the fcpa or other anti-corruption laws may result in severe criminal or civil sanctions and penalties, damage our brand and reputation and subject us to other liabilities which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 22 in connection with our initial public offering and separation from morgan stanley, we entered into agreements with morgan stanley where we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other things, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. pursuant to certain agreements we entered into with morgan stanley relating to the provision of services and other matters, we agreed to indemnify morgan stanley for, among other matters, certain past, present and future liabilities related to our business. such liabilities include certain unknown liabilities, which could be significant. financial risks our business performance might not be sufficient for us to meet the full-year financial guidance or long-term targets that we provide publicly. we provide full-year financial guidance and long-term targets to the public based upon our assumptions regarding our expected financial performance. for example, we provide assumptions regarding our ability to achieve certain subscription revenue growth, manage our expenses, generate free cash flow, achieve an effective tax rate within a certain range and achieve our profitability targets. while we believe that our annual financial guidance and long-term targets provide investors and analysts with insight to our view of the company's future performance, such financial guidance and long-term targets are based on assumptions that may not always prove to be accurate and may vary from actual results. if we fail to meet the full-year financial guidance or achieve the long-term targets that we provide, or if we find it necessary to revise such guidance or targets, the market value of our common stock or other securities could be adversely affected. our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. we are subject to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. additionally, the value of assets in index-linked investment products can fluctuate significantly over short periods of time and such volatility may be further impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. for additional information on our foreign currency exchange rate risk, see part ii, item 7a quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. any derivative financial instruments that we are currently party to or may enter into in the future may not be successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our results of operations. to the extent that our international activities recorded in local currencies increase or decrease in the future, our exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates may correspondingly increase and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. depending on the final terms reached between the uk and the eu, brexit has and may continue to cause significant volatility in currency exchange rates, especially between the u.s. dollar and the british pound sterling. the weaker british pound sterling means that revenues earned in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar revenues. the weaker british pound sterling also means that expenses incurred in british pound sterling translate to lower reported u.s. dollar expenses. the weaker british pound sterling could also impair the purchasing power of our clients and could result in decreased demand for our products and services. the fall in the british pound sterling relative to the u.s. dollar, and the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to a number of currencies including the british pound sterling, could have significant impacts on our business, financial condition or results of operations. 23 our indebtedness could materially adversely affect our cash flows and financial flexibility. our variable rate indebtedness could subject us to interest rate risk, which could cause our debt service obligations to increase significantly. for an overview of our current outstanding indebtedness and history of our offerings, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations below. although we believe that our cash flows will be sufficient to service our outstanding indebtedness, we cannot provide assurance that we will generate and maintain cash flows sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. our ability to make payments on indebtedness and to fund planned capital expenditures depends on our ability to generate and access cash in the future, which, in turn, is subject to general economic, financial, competitive, regulatory and other factors, many of which are beyond our control. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations or access offshore cash, we may need to refinance all or a portion of our indebtedness on or before maturity and we may not be able to secure additional financing on terms favorable or acceptable to us or at all. absent sufficient cash flow from our operations and the ability to refinance, we could also be forced to sell assets to make up for any shortfall in our payment obligations. the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, however, limit our and our subsidiaries' ability to sell assets and also restrict the use of proceeds from such a sale. if we cannot refinance or otherwise pay our obligations as they mature and fund our liquidity needs, our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, liquidity, ability to obtain financing and ability to compete in our industry could be materially adversely affected. we may need to incur additional debt from time to time under our existing debt agreements to finance working capital, capital expenditures, investments or acquisitions, or for other purposes. if we do so, the risks related to our level of indebtedness could intensify, including by making it difficult for us to optimally capitalize and manage the cash flow for our business or placing us at a competitive disadvantage compared to our competitors that have less indebtedness. furthermore, the terms of our debt agreements include restrictive covenants that limit, among other things, our and our existing and future subsidiaries' financial flexibility. if we are unable to comply with the restrictions and covenants in our debt agreements, there could be a default that, in some cases, if continuing, could result in the accelerated payment of our debt obligations or the termination of borrowing commitments on the part of the lenders under our revolving credit agreement. see part ii, item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for a description of the restrictive covenants in our debt agreements. in 2017, the u.k. financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates london interbank offered rate ( libor ), announced that the fca will no longer persuade or compel banks to submit rates for the calculation of the libor benchmark after 2021. this announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis cannot be guaranteed after 2021, and there is a substantial risk that libor will be discontinued or modified by the end of 2021, and although alternative reference rates have been proposed, it is unknown whether they will attain market acceptance as replacements of libor. at this time, it is not possible to predict the effect that these developments, any discontinuance, modification or other reforms to libor or any other reference rate, or the establishment of alternative reference rates may have on libor, other benchmarks or floating rate debt instruments, including borrowings under the credit agreement, dated as of november 20, 2014, by and among the company, the guarantors party thereto, jpmorgan chase bank, n.a., as administrative agent and the lenders from time to time party thereto, as amended, supplemented, modified or amended and restated from time to time (the revolving credit facility ). the use of alternative reference rates or other reforms could cause the interest rate calculated for such borrowings to increase or otherwise fail to correlate over time with the interest rates and/or payments that would have been made on our obligations if libor was available in its current form, or have other adverse effects on us. to address the transition away from libor, our revolving credit facility provides for a process to amend our revolving credit facility to substitute libor with a replacement rate under certain circumstances. however, there is no guarantee that any such amendment for a replacement rate would become effective, and in the event that such amendment does not become effective, we may be required to pay a rate of interest higher than expected on the amount owed under our revolving credit facility. 24 a change in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our financial condition. our credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our common stock or outstanding debt. our outstanding debt under the senior notes currently has non-investment grade ratings. any rating assigned to such debt is subject to ongoing evaluation by the credit rating agencies and could be lowered or withdrawn entirely at any time by either or both agencies if, in the agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. such future circumstances include, but are not limited to, adverse changes to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, or revisions to our corporate strategy pertaining to capitalization or leverage. for example, on july 28, 2015, the board of directors authorized corporate action that led to a change in the company's target leverage and interest expense, allowing for the issuance of our 2025 senior notes on august 13, 2015. following the board of directors' authorization, one of the ratings agencies described the increase as substantially higher than current leverage levels and as a result downgraded our credit rating. this downgrade, and any further downgrade, could adversely affect the amount of capital we can access, as well as the terms of any financing we obtain. in addition, our debt covenants contain certain obligations that are triggered by a change in our credit rating, including obligations to make repurchase offers to the noteholders of our senior notes if the following two conditions are met at the time of, or as a result of, a change of control or sale of substantially all of the company's assets: (i) the senior notes are rated below investment grade by each rating agency that rates the senior notes and (ii) the senior notes are downgraded by any rating agency. any adverse change in our credit rating could have a negative effect on our liquidity and future growth through transactions in which we rely on the ability to receive debt capital at an advantageous cost and on favorable terms. accordingly, actual or anticipated changes or downgrades to or withdrawal of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review or have been assigned a negative outlook, could result in damage to our brand and reputation and have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows and on the market value of our common stock and outstanding debt. we may have exposure to tax liabilities in various jurisdictions. future changes in tax law could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. we are subject to income taxes, as well as non-income or indirect taxes, in the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our global provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. changes in domestic and international tax laws could negatively impact our overall effective tax rate. in particular, brexit could create uncertainty with respect to our corporate tax rate as well as the tax rates of our employees based in the uk. the 2017 u.s. tax cuts and jobs act ( tax reform ) was enacted on december 22, 2017, and significantly affected u.s. tax law by changing how the u.s. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. tax reform requires complex computations not previously provided in u.s. tax law. further, compliance with tax reform and the accounting for such provisions require accumulation of information not previously required or regularly produced. the u.s. department of treasury has broad authority, and is continuing, to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and may impact our results of operations. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. although we believe that our tax provisions are reasonable, there can be no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. to the extent we are required to pay amounts in excess of our reserves, such differences could have a material adverse effect on our consolidated statement of income for a particular future period. in addition, an unfavorable tax settlement could require use of our cash and result in an increase in our effective tax rate in the period in which such resolution occurs. 25 our investments in recorded goodwill and other intangible assets as a result of acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangible assets resulting from our acquisitions, could be impaired as a result of future business conditions, requiring us to record substantial write-downs that would reduce our operating income. we have goodwill and intangible assets of $1,824.4 million recorded on our balance sheet as of december 31, 2019. we evaluate the recoverability of recorded goodwill amounts annually or when evidence of potential impairment exists. intangible assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of the asset may not be recoverable. these impairment tests are based on several factors requiring management's judgment. changes in fair market valuations and our operating performance or business conditions, in general, could result in future impairments of goodwill or intangible assets which could materially adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we are not successful in achieving anticipated operating efficiencies associated with acquisitions, our goodwill and intangible assets may become impaired. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency risk we are subject to foreign currency exchange fluctuation risk. exchange rate movements can impact the u.s. dollar-reported value of our revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities denominated in non-u.s. dollar currencies or where the currency of such items is different than the functional currency of the entity where these items were recorded. we generally invoice our clients in u.s. dollars however, we invoice a portion of our clients in euros, british pounds sterling, japanese yen and a limited number of other non-u.s. dollar currencies. for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, 13.5% and 12.9%, respectively, of our revenues are subject to foreign currency exchange rate risk and primarily includes clients billed in foreign currency as well as u.s. dollar exposures on non-u.s. dollar foreign operating entities. of the 13.5% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2019, 40.8% was in euros, 26.9% was in japanese yen and 23.1% was in british pounds sterling. of the 12.9% of non-u.s dollar exposure for the year ended december 31, 2018, 42.2% was in euros, 29.4% was in japanese yen and 17.8% was in british pounds sterling. revenues from index-linked investment products represented 23.2% and 23.5% of operating revenues for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. while a substantial portion of our fees for index-linked investment products are invoiced in u.s. dollars, the fees are based on the investment product's assets, of which two-thirds are invested in securities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. accordingly, declines in such other currencies against the u.s. dollar will decrease the fees payable to us under such licenses. in addition, declines in such currencies against the u.s. dollar could impact the attractiveness of such investment products resulting in net fund outflows, which would further reduce the fees payable under such licenses. we are exposed to additional foreign currency risk in certain of our operating costs. approximately 41.2% and 40.4% of our operating expenses for the years ended december 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, were denominated in foreign currencies, the significant majority of which were denominated in british pounds sterling, indian rupees, hungarian forints, euros, hong kong dollars, swiss francs and mexican pesos. expenses incurred in foreign currency may increase as we expand our business outside the u.s. we have certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than local functional amounts and when these balances are remeasured into their local functional currency, either a gain or a loss results from the change of the value of the functional currency as compared to the originating currencies. we manage foreign currency exchange rate risk, in part, through the use of derivative financial instruments comprised principally of forward contracts on foreign currency which are not designated as hedging instruments for accounting purposes. the objective of the derivative instruments is to minimize the impact on the income statement of the volatility of amounts denominated in certain foreign currencies. we recognized total foreign currency exchange losses of $4.0 million for the year ended december 31, 2019 and foreign currency exchange gains of $0.4 million for the year ended december 31, 2018.