risk factors 7 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995", and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2012. however, the two largest customers comprised nearly 16% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 24% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company's products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic condition, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. 7 sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in 2013 and beyond may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. 8 the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. the company generates revenue outside of the united states and expects it to continue to represent a significant portion of its total revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated 9 inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the company's operations, disrupt the operations of its suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for its products and make it difficult or impossible for the company to manufacture its products, deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from suppliers. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, nickel and resin. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, wood and other corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates currently available to the company or to its suppliers could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company's results. 10 uncertainty about the financial stability of several countries in the european union (eu), the risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt and related stresses on the european economy could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. in 2010, a financial crisis emerged in europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain, which created concerns about the ability of these eu peripheral nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. these conditions impacted financial markets and resulted in high and volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of many eu nations. the financial stress experienced by the peripheral nations has decreased, and yields on government-issued bonds and their associated volatilities have come off their recent highs. despite these improving signs and the extraordinary measures taken by the ecb, through the european financial stability facility, worries about sovereign finances and their potential contagion effect over other economies in the region persist. risks and ongoing concerns about the debt crisis in europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of european financial institutions. market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. there can be no assurance that the market disruptions in europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in europe or elsewhere. to the extent uncertainty regarding the economic recovery continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, the company's business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. the company generates approximately 27% of its revenues from europe. each of the company's segments generate sales from the european marketplace, with the sales activity being somewhat concentrated within france, the nordic region, germany and the uk. while the company believes any downturn in the european marketplace would be offset to some degree by sales growth in emerging markets and relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a devaluation of or a break-up of the euro could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of or break of the euro could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british, asian and latin america currencies, including the chinese renminbi ("rmb"). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2012, foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted revenues by approximately $270 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.10. the translation impact will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. 11 the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company has a committed revolving credit agreement expiring in march 2015 supporting borrowings up to $1.2 billion and a $1.0 billion 364 day committed credit facility expiring in july 2013. no amounts were outstanding against these facilities at december 29, 2012. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense, certain restructuring and other merger and acquisition-related charges as well as stock-based compensation expense. the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 ebitda to 1.0 interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 14 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2012 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as access to the capital markets. 12 the company's acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. in 2012, the company completed seven smaller acquisitions. in 2011, the company completed the acquisition of niscayah and nine smaller acquisitions. in 2010, along with the merger, the company completed the acquisition of crc-evans, as well as nine smaller acquisitions. prior to 2010, the company completed a number of acquisitions, including, but not limited to, gdp, sonitrol and xmark in 2008. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized, the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability, the diversion of company management's attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on its ability to: identify suitable future acquisition candidates, obtain the necessary financing, combine operations, integrate departments, systems and procedures, and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of certain smaller acquisitions in 2012. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic sales and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with us laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. sequestration or other actions of the us government resulting in significant cuts in u.s. government spending could adversely affect the company's growth initiatives and future results. the company's growth initiatives call for increased sales to us government customers in the healthcare, security and industrial verticals. should sequestration take effect or other actions be taken that significantly cut us government spending in those areas, the company's growth initiatives and future results may be adversely impacted. 13 a downturn in the u.s. economy could adversely affect the company's business. almost 50% of the company's 2012 annual revenues were from the united states. the company is targeting a 2-3% increase in organic growth in 2013 and 4-6% organic growth over the long term. some of this growth will come from the u.s. market. a downturn in the u.s. economy would make it more difficult for the company to attain these growth objectives, and could adversely impact results. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company as income tax expense. future tax law changes may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. pursuant to the rules of asc 740, accounting for income taxes, income tax payments made may differ from the total income tax expense recorded, primarily due to deferred taxes and income tax reserves. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company's income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company's distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future, be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company's products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. 14 the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the merger and other acquisitions, the company has $7.0 billion of goodwill, $1.6 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and $1.3 billion of definite-lived intangible assets at december 29, 2012. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2012, the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $107 million and it expects to contribute $80 million to its defined benefit plans in 2013. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at december 29, 2012 was $1.836 billion. legal or technological hurdles associated with the expansion of use of rfid and rtls technologies in company products could adversely affect the company's growth initiatives and long term results. the company's growth initiatives call for expansions of use of rfid and rtls technologies both geographically and through incorporation of these technologies into new products. in connection with these activities, the company may encounter both technological difficulties and legal impediments, including, but not limited to, design requirements, ownership claims and licensing requirements, that could delay or prevent the use of these technologies in certain products and/or in certain geographies. any such impediments could adversely impact the company's plans for growth and future results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, derivative financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 7 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995", and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2013. however, the two largest customers comprised nearly 15% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 24% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company's products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic condition, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. 7 the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in 2014 and beyond may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. 8 the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. the company generates revenue outside of the united states and expects it to continue to represent a significant portion of its total revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 9 the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. 10 the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the company's operations, disrupt the operations of its suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for its products and make it difficult or impossible for the company to manufacture its products, deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from suppliers. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates currently available to the company or to its suppliers could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company's results. uncertainty about the financial stability of several countries in the european union (eu), the risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt and related stresses on the european economy could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 26% of its revenues from europe. each of the company's segments generate sales from the european marketplace, with the sales activity being somewhat concentrated within france, the nordic region, germany and the uk. while the company believes any downturn in the european marketplace would be offset to some degree by sales growth in emerging markets and relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a devaluation of or a break-up of the euro could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of or break of the euro could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. 11 the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british, australian, latin american, and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2013, translational and transactional foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted pre-tax earnings by approximately $60 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.30. the translational and transactional impacts will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has a five year $1.5 billion committed credit facility and a $500 million 364 day committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against these facilities at december 28, 2013. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense, certain restructuring and other merger and acquisition-related charges as well as stock-based compensation expense. the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 times ebitda to 1.0 times interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 8 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2013 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. 12 the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as access to the capital markets. the company's acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. in 2013, the company completed the acquisition of infastech and purchased a 60% controlling share in jiangsu guoqiang tools ("gq"), as well as a number of smaller acquisitions. in 2012, the company completed seven smaller acquisitions. in 2011, the company completed the acquisition of niscayah and nine smaller acquisitions. prior to 2010, along with the merger, the company completed a number of acquisitions, including, but not limited to, crc-evans, gdp, sonitrol and xmark. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized, the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability, the diversion of company management's attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on its ability to: identify suitable future acquisition candidates, obtain the necessary financing, combine operations, integrate departments, systems and procedures, and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of recent acquisitions in 2013. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. 13 expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic sales and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with us laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company as income tax expense. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. pursuant to the rules of asc 740, accounting for income taxes, income tax payments made may differ from the total income tax expense recorded, primarily due to deferred taxes and income tax reserves. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company's income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company's distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company's products could be recalled. 14 the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has $7.6 billion of goodwill, $1.6 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and $1.5 billion of definite-lived intangible assets at december 28, 2013. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2013, the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $110 million and it expects to contribute $101 million to its defined benefit plans in 2014. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at december 28, 2013 was $2.129 billion. legal or technological hurdles associated with the expansion of use of rfid and rtls technologies in company products could adversely affect the company's growth initiatives and long term results. the company's growth initiatives call for expansions of use of rfid and rtls technologies both geographically and through incorporation of these technologies into new products. in connection with these activities, the company may encounter both technological difficulties and legal impediments, including, but not limited to, design requirements, ownership claims and licensing or permitting requirements, that could delay or prevent the use of these technologies in certain products and/or in certain geographies. any such impediments could adversely impact the company's plans for growth and future results. risks associated with hostilities involving north korea. the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, derivative financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors 7 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995", and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2014. however, the two largest customers comprised nearly 16% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 23% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company's products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic condition, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. 7 the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in future years may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. 8 the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. the company generates revenue outside of the united states and expects it to continue to represent a significant portion of its total revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 9 the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, cyber attacks, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. further, security threats and sophisticated computer crime pose a potential risk to the security of the company's information technology systems, networks and services, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of the company's data. if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information due to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these issues on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations as well as reputational, competitive or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as 10 opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the company's operations, disrupt the operations of its suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for its products and make it difficult or impossible for the company to manufacture its products, deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from suppliers. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates currently available to the company or to its suppliers could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company's results. uncertainty about the financial stability of several countries in the european union (eu), the risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt and related stresses on the european economy could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 25% of its revenues from europe. each of the company's segments generate sales from the european marketplace, with the sales activity being somewhat concentrated within france, the nordic region, germany and the uk. while the company believes any downturn in the european marketplace would be offset to some degree by sales growth in emerging markets and relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a devaluation of or a break-up of the euro could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of or break of the euro could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; 11 the impact of an event (individual country default or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british, australian, latin american, and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2014, translational and transactional foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted pre-tax earnings by approximately $85 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.42 . the translational and transactional impacts will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has a five year $1.5 billion committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against this facility at january 3, 2015. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense, certain restructuring and other merger and acquisition-related charges as well as stock-based compensation expense. the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 times ebitda to 1.0 times interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 8 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2014 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. 12 the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as access to the capital markets. the company's acquisitions, as well as general business reorganizations, may result in significant costs and certain risks for its business and operations. the company has completed a number of acquisitions in recent years including, but not limited to, infastech, a 60% controlling share in jiangsu guoqiang tools ("gq") and niscayah. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the failure to identify the most suitable candidates for acquisitions; the anticipated additional revenues from the acquired companies do not materialize, despite extensive due diligence; the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized; the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability; the diversion of company management's attention and other resources; the incurrence of unexpected costs and liabilities, and; the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on successful general reorganization including its ability to: combine businesses and operations; integrate departments, systems and procedures, and; obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from such reorganizations. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions and general business reorganizations, and mitigate the related risks, may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, significant restructuring costs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company cannot ensure that such integrations and reorganizations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies and other benefits will be realized. 13 expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic sales and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with us laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company as income tax expense. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. pursuant to the rules of asc 740, accounting for income taxes, income tax payments made may differ from the total income tax expense recorded, primarily due to deferred taxes and income tax reserves. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company's income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company's distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. 14 the company's products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has $7.276 billion of goodwill, $1.593 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and $1.159 billion of definite-lived intangible assets at january 3, 2015 . the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2014, the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $155 million and it expects to contribute $94 million to its defined benefit plans in 2015. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at january 3, 2015 was $2.290 billion . legal or technological hurdles associated with the expansion of use of rfid and rtls technologies in company products could adversely affect the company's growth initiatives and long term results. the company's growth initiatives call for expansions of use of rfid and rtls technologies both geographically and through incorporation of these technologies into new products. in connection with these activities, the company may encounter both technological difficulties and legal impediments, including, but not limited to, design requirements, ownership claims and licensing or permitting requirements, that could delay or prevent the use of these technologies in certain products and/or in certain geographies. any such impediments could adversely impact the company's plans for growth and future results. risks associated with hostilities involving north korea. the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, derivative financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors 7 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995", and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no single customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2015 . however, the two largest customers comprised nearly 18% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 27% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company's products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons such as preference for digital technology products or other technology enhancements not then offered by css, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic conditions, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event 7 the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in future years may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's ongoing efforts to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. 8 the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. the company generates a significant portion of its total revenue outside of the united states. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase 9 costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, cyber attacks, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. further, security threats and sophisticated computer crime pose a potential risk to the security of the company's information technology systems, networks, services and assets, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of the company's data. if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information due to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these issues on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations as well as reputational, competitive or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the company's operations, disrupt the operations of its suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for its products and make it difficult or impossible for the company to manufacture its products, deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from suppliers. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. 10 further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates, currently available to the company or to its suppliers, could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company's results. uncertainty about the financial stability of economies outside the u.s. could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 47% of its revenues from outside the u.s., including 22% of its revenues from europe and 16% from various emerging market countries. each of the company's segments generates sales from these marketplaces. while the company believes any downturn in the european or emerging marketplaces might be offset to some degree by the relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a slowing or contracting chinese economy could reduce china's consumption and negatively impact the company's sales in that region, as well as globally; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers in those regions impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant currency exposures are related to the euro, canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, brazilian real, argentine peso, chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2015 , translational and transactional foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted pre-tax earnings by approximately $220 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $1.13 . the translational and transactional impacts will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company generally does not hedge the translation of its non-u.s. dollar earnings in foreign subsidiaries, but may choose to do so in certain instances. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. 11 the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has an amended and restated five-year $1.75 billion committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against this facility at january 2, 2016 . the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense and stock-based compensation expense. the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 times ebitda to 1.0 times interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 9 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2015 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as access to the capital markets. 12 the company's acquisitions, as well as general business reorganizations, may result in significant costs and certain risks for its business and operations. the company has completed a number of acquisitions in recent years including, but not limited to, infastech, jiangsu guoqiang tools ("gq") and niscayah. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the failure to identify the most suitable candidates for acquisitions; the ability to identify and close on appropriate acquisition opportunities within desired timeframes at reasonable cost; the anticipated additional revenues from the acquired companies do not materialize, despite extensive due diligence; the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized; the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability; the diversion of company management's attention and other resources; the incurrence of unexpected costs and liabilities, including those associated with undisclosed pre-closing regulatory violations by the acquired business; and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on successful general reorganization including its ability to: combine businesses and operations; integrate departments, systems and procedures; and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from such reorganizations, including the company's functional transformation initiative. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions and general business reorganizations, and mitigate the related risks, may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, significant restructuring costs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company cannot ensure that such integrations and reorganizations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies and other benefits will be realized. expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic growth and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. significant judgment and certain estimates are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company considers many factors when evaluating and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. the company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still subject to 13 audit based on the most currently available information, which involves inherent uncertainty. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any audit (or related litigation) could differ materially from amounts reflected in the company's income tax accruals. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. lastly, the global income tax provision can be materially impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar since a significant amount of the company's earnings are generated outside the united states. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company's distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company's products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write-down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has $7.084 billion of goodwill, $1.578 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and $0.964 billion of definite-lived intangible assets at january 2, 2016 . the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. 14 the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2015 , the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $66 million and it expects to contribute $52 million to its defined benefit plans in 2016. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at january 2, 2016 was $2.129 billion . legal or technological hurdles associated with the expansion of use of rfid and rtls technologies in company products could adversely affect the company's growth initiatives and long term results. the company's growth initiatives call for expansions of use of rfid and rtls technologies both geographically and through incorporation of these technologies into new products. in connection with these activities, the company may encounter both technological difficulties and legal impediments, including, but not limited to, design requirements, ownership claims and licensing or permitting requirements, that could delay or prevent the use of these technologies in certain products and/or in certain geographies. any such impediments could adversely impact the company's plans for growth and future results. risks associated with hostilities involving north korea. the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, derivative financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors 7 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995," and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no single customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2016 . however, the two largest customers comprised approximately 19% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 28% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company's products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on net sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons such as preference for digital technology products or other technology enhancements not then offered by css, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic conditions, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. 7 the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the core sfs principles to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted. similarly, if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors, the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost, could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in future years may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. 8 the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks have a reputation for quality and value and are important to the company's success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's ongoing efforts to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. the company generates a significant portion of its total revenue outside of the united states. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 9 the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported from (including importation into the u.s. of our products manufactured overseas) may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. furthermore, imported products and materials may be subject to future border adjustment taxes or tariffs in the u.s. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve, or delays in achieving, projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, cyber attacks, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. further, security threats and sophisticated computer crime pose a potential risk to the security of the company's information technology systems, networks, services and assets, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of the company's data. if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information due to security breaches, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these issues on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations as well as reputational, competitive or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions 10 may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the company's operations, disrupt the operations of its suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for the company's products and make it difficult or impossible to manufacture products, deliver products to customers, or receive materials from suppliers. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices, and there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates, currently available to the company or to its suppliers, could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company's results. uncertainty about the financial stability of economies outside the u.s. could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 48% of its revenues from outside the u.s., including 23% of its revenues from europe and 16% from various emerging market countries. each of the company's segments generates sales from these marketplaces. while the company believes any downturn in the european or emerging marketplaces might be offset to some degree by the relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a slowing or contracting chinese economy could reduce china's consumption and negatively impact the company's sales in that region, as well as globally; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers in those regions impacting the collectability of receivables; 11 a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default, brexit, or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant currency exposures are related to the euro, canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, brazilian real, argentine peso, chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2016 , translational and transactional foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted pre-tax earnings by approximately $155 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.82 . the translational and transactional impacts will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company generally does not hedge the translation of its non-u.s. dollar earnings in foreign subsidiaries, but may choose to do so in certain instances. the company sources many products from china and other low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has a five-year $1.75 billion committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against this facility at december 31, 2016 . the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense and stock-based compensation expense. the interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.5 times and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was 10 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2016 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. 12 the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as access to the capital markets. the company's acquisitions, as well as general business reorganizations, may result in significant costs and certain risks for its business and operations. in addition to a number of smaller acquisitions completed in recent years, the company has also entered into definitive agreements in october 2016 and january 2017 to acquire newell tools and the craftsman brand, respectively. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the failure to identify the most suitable candidates for acquisitions; the ability to identify and close on appropriate acquisition opportunities within desired time frames at reasonable cost; the anticipated additional revenues from the acquired companies do not materialize, despite extensive due diligence; the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized; the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability; the diversion of company management's attention and other resources; the incurrence of unexpected costs and liabilities, including those associated with undisclosed pre-closing regulatory violations by the acquired business; and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on successful general reorganization including its ability to: combine businesses and operations; integrate departments, systems and procedures; and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from such reorganizations, including the company's functional transformation initiative. failure to effectively consummate or manage the pending acquisitions and any future acquisitions or general business reorganizations, and mitigate the related risks, may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, significant restructuring costs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company cannot ensure that such integrations and reorganizations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies and other benefits will be realized. 13 expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic growth and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. significant judgment and certain estimates are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company considers many factors when evaluating and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. the company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still subject to audit based on the most currently available information, which involves inherent uncertainty. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any audit (or related litigation) could differ materially from amounts reflected in the company's income tax accruals. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. lastly, the global income tax provision can be materially impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar since a significant amount of the company's earnings are generated outside the united states. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company's distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. 14 the company's products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write-down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has $6,694.0 million of goodwill, $1,508.5 million of indefinite-lived trade names and $791.0 million of net definite-lived intangible assets at december 31, 2016 . these amounts exclude approximately $302.8 million of goodwill, $65.2 million of an indefinite-lived trade name and $31.8 million of net definite-lived intangibles that are classified within assets held for sale on the consolidated balance sheets at december 31, 2016. refer to note t, divestitures , for further discussion. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2016 , the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $57 million and it expects to contribute $66 million to its defined benefit plans in 2017 . there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at december 31, 2016 was $2.082 billion . risks associated with hostilities involving north korea. the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, derivative financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors 7 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995," and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission ("sec"), before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers. the two largest customers comprised approximately 21% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 29% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company's products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on net sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons such as preference for digital technology products or other technology enhancements not then offered by css, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic conditions, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. core sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business 7 processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the core sfs principles to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted. similarly, if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors, the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost, could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in future years may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks have a reputation for quality and value and are important to the company's success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's ongoing efforts to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. 8 the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. the company generates a significant portion of its total revenue outside of the united states. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states, including data privacy; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on repatriation of earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported from (including importation into the u.s. of our products manufactured overseas) may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. furthermore, imported products and materials may be subject to future tariffs or other trade measures in the u.s. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. 9 the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve, or delays in achieving, projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions or other costs associated with information technology, cyber attacks, system implementations, data privacy, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. additionally, the company relies on software applications and enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors, and our business may be adversely affected by service disruptions or security breaches in such third-party systems. security threats and sophisticated computer crime pose a potential risk to the security of the company's information technology systems, cloud storage systems, networks, services and assets, as well as the confidentiality and integrity of the company's customers' data. if the company suffers a loss or disclosure of business or stakeholder information due to security breaches, including as a result of human error and technological failures, and business continuity plans do not effectively address these issues on a timely basis, the company may suffer interruptions in its ability to manage operations as well as reputational, competitive or business harm, which may adversely impact the company's results of operations and financial condition. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. the company is also subject to u.s. and international data privacy and cybersecurity laws and regulations, which may impose fines and penalties for noncompliance and may have an adverse effect on the company's operations. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation (the gdpr ), which becomes effective in may 2018, extends the scope of the eu data protection law to all companies processing data of eu residents, regardless of the company's location, and imposes significant new requirements on how the company collects, processes and transfers personal data. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt the company's operations, disrupt the operations of its suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for the company's products and make it difficult or impossible to manufacture products, deliver products to customers, or receive materials from suppliers. 10 the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices, and there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates, currently available to the company or to its suppliers, could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company's results. in addition, many of the company's products incorporate battery technology. as other industries begin to adopt similar battery technology for use in their products, the increased demand could place capacity constraints on the company's supply chain. in addition, increased demand for battery technology may also increase the costs to the company for both the battery cells as well as the underlying raw materials. if the company is unable to mitigate any possible supply constraints or related increased costs, its profitably and financial results could be negatively impacted. uncertainty about the financial stability of economies outside the u.s. could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 46% of its revenues from outside the u.s., including 22% of its revenues from europe and 14% from various emerging market countries. each of the company's segments generates sales from these marketplaces. while the company believes any downturn in the european or emerging marketplaces might be offset to some degree by the relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a slowing or contracting chinese economy could reduce china's consumption and negatively impact the company's sales in that region, as well as globally; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers in those regions impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default, brexit, or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. 11 the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant currency exposures are related to the euro, canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, brazilian real, argentine peso, chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, while income and expenses are translated using average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2017 , translational and transactional foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted pre-tax earnings by approximately $12.4 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.07 . the translational and transactional impacts will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company generally does not hedge the translation of its non-u.s. dollar earnings in foreign subsidiaries, but may choose to do so in certain instances. the company sources many products from china and other low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has a five-year $1.75 billion committed credit facility and a 364-day $1.25 billion committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against either of these facilities at december 30, 2017 . the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense and stock-based compensation expense. the interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.5 times and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was 10 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2017 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. 12 the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in the past and may again in the future. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as its access to the capital markets. the company's acquisitions, as well as general business reorganizations, may result in significant costs and certain risks for its business and operations. in 2017, the company completed the acquisitions of newell tools and the craftsman brand, as well as a number of other smaller acquisitions. in addition, the company recently reached an agreement to purchase the nelson fastener systems industrial business, which is expected to close in the first half of 2018, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the failure to identify the most suitable candidates for acquisitions; the ability to identify and close on appropriate acquisition opportunities within desired time frames at reasonable cost; the anticipated additional revenues from the acquired companies do not materialize, despite extensive due diligence; the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized; the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability; the diversion of company management's attention and other resources; the incurrence of unexpected costs and liabilities, including those associated with undisclosed pre-closing regulatory violations by the acquired business; and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on successful general reorganization including its ability to: combine businesses and operations; integrate departments, systems and procedures; and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from such reorganizations, including the company's functional transformation initiative. failure to effectively consummate or manage the pending acquisition and any future acquisitions or general business reorganizations, and mitigate the related risks, may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, significant restructuring costs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company cannot ensure that such integrations and reorganizations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies and other benefits will be realized. 13 expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic growth and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. significant judgment and certain estimates are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company considers many factors when evaluating and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. the company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still subject to audit based on the most currently available information, which involves inherent uncertainty. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any audit (or related litigation) could differ materially from amounts reflected in the company's income tax accruals. additionally, the global income tax provision can be materially impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar since a significant amount of the company's earnings are generated outside the united states. lastly, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the act ). the act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code, including, but not limited to, (1) reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent; (2) requiring companies to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries; (3) generally eliminating u.s. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (4) requiring a tax on global intangible low-taxed income ( gilti ) which is a current inclusion in u.s. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations; (5) eliminating the corporate alternative minimum tax ("amt") and changing how existing amt credits can be realized; (6) creating the base erosion anti-abuse tax ("beat"); (7) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; and (8) changing rules related to uses and limitations of net operating loss carryforwards created in tax years beginning after december 31, 2017. pursuant to staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ) issued by the sec in december 2017, issuers are permitted up to one year from the enactment of the act to complete the accounting for the income tax effects of the act. see note a, significant accounting policies, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, for further information about sab 118. as of december 30, 2017, the company has not completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the act; however, in certain cases, as described in note q, income taxes , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company has made a reasonable estimate of the effects on its existing deferred tax balances and the one-time transition tax. in other cases, the company has not been able to make a reasonable estimate and continues to account for those items based on existing accounting guidance under accounting standards codification ("asc") 740, income taxes , and the provisions of the tax laws that were in effect immediately prior to enactment. during the fourth quarter of 2017, a provisional net charge of $23.6 million was recognized for the items the company was able to reasonably estimate, which has been included as a component of income taxes on continuing operations. the final impacts of the act may be materially different from current estimates, which are based on management's preliminarily analysis of currently available information. in all cases, estimates of the impact of the act may be updated to account for changes in interpretations of the act, any legislative action to address questions that arise because of the act, and any changes in accounting standards for income taxes or related interpretations in response to the act. the company will continue to examine the impact that the act may have on its operations in future periods. notwithstanding the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, the overall net impact of the legislation remains uncertain and could adversely impact the company's results of operations or financial condition. 14 the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company's distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company's products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write-down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has $8.8 billion of goodwill, $2.2 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and $1.3 billion of net definite-lived intangible assets at december 30, 2017 . the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2017 , the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $67 million and it expects to contribute $41 million to its defined benefit plans in 2018 . 15 there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of the defined benefit plan assets at december 30, 2017 was $2.213 billion . risks associated with hostilities involving north korea. the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. 16 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors 8 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995" in item 7, and in other documents that the company files with the sec, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers. the two largest customers comprised approximately 22% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 37% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties for the company's products, related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on net sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons such as preference for digital technology products or other technology enhancements not then offered by css, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic conditions, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. core sfs / industry 4.0 is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the core sfs principles to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted. similarly, if 8 such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors, the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production, may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost, could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in future years may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, evolving industry standards, or the emergence of new or disruptive technologies. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company's trademarks have a reputation for quality and value and are important to the company's success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's ongoing efforts to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company's ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, legal, economic and other risks arising from operating outside of the united states. the company generates a significant portion of its total revenue outside of the united states. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements including those related to the u.s.'s relationship with china; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states, including data privacy; 9 compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on, or impacts from, the repatriation of foreign earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. additionally, the company is subject to complex u.s., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the u.k. bribery act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to the company's international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported from (including importation into the u.s. of the company's products manufactured overseas) may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. for example, changes in u.s. policy regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, could also negatively impact the company's business. in 2018, the u.s. imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum as well as on goods imported from china and certain other countries, which has resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the u.s. on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could result in an increase in supply chain costs that the company may not be able to offset or otherwise adversely impact the company's results of operations. furthermore, imported products and materials may be subject to future tariffs or other trade measures in the u.s. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company's suppliers' failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the united states-mexico-canada agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union ("eu"), or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these 10 alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. in addition, the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve, or delays in achieving, projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity and data privacy compliance. the company's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations, as well as confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees maintained in the company's computer systems and networks, certain products and services, and in the computer systems and networks of its third-party vendors. cyber threats are rapidly evolving as data thieves and hackers have become increasingly sophisticated and carry out large-scale, complex automated attacks. the company may not be able to anticipate or prevent all such attacks and could be held liable for any resulting security breach or data loss. in addition, it is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or third-party vendors. breaches of the company's or the company's vendors' technology and systems, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company's or such vendors' websites, applications, data processing, and certain products and services, or disruption of other business operations. furthermore, any such breaches could compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about the company's business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information ( pii ), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that the company takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents, including implementing and conducting training on insider trading policies for the company's employees and maintaining contractual obligations for the company's third-party vendors, can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. to conduct its operations, the company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to the company is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union law and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. in many cases, these laws and regulations apply not only to transfers between unrelated third parties but also to transfers between the company and its subsidiaries. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. implementation of the gdpr and data localization laws will continue to require changes to certain business practices, thereby increasing costs, or may result in negative publicity, require significant management time and attention, and may subject the company to remedies that may harm its business, including fines or demands or orders that the company modify or cease existing business practices. the company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security and data privacy measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, organizational investments, incident response plans, table top exercises and technical defenses. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite the company's best efforts, it is not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the 11 measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. any material breaches of cybersecurity, including the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the company's systems, products and services or those of the company's third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, fines, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company's customers' information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions or other costs associated with information technology, cyber attacks, system implementations, data privacy, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems, including those of third parties, to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations and maintaining insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. additionally, the company relies on software applications and enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors, and the company's business may be adversely affected by service disruptions or security breaches in such third-party systems. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. factors that are hard to predict or beyond the company's control, like weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, cybersecurity breaches, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt the company's infrastructure, or that of its suppliers or distributors. if the company does not effectively plan for or respond to disruptions in its operations, or cannot quickly repair damage to its information, production or supply systems, the company may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products and services to its customers, and the quality and safety of its products and services might be negatively affected. if a material or extended disruption occurs, the company may lose its customers' or business partners' confidence or suffer damage to its reputation, and long-term consumer demand for its products and services could decline. although the company maintains business interruption insurance, it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. these events could materially and adversely affect the company's product sales, financial condition and results of operations. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. 12 conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices, and there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates, currently available to the company or to its suppliers, could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products, as well as purchased products and components, and could adversely affect the company's results. in addition, many of the company's products incorporate battery technology. as other industries begin to adopt similar battery technology for use in their products, the increased demand could place capacity constraints on the company's supply chain. in addition, increased demand for battery technology may also increase the costs to the company for both the battery cells as well as the underlying raw materials. if the company is unable to mitigate any possible supply constraints or related increased costs, its profitably and financial results could be negatively impacted. uncertainty about the financial stability of economies outside the u.s. could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 45% of its revenues from outside the u.s., including 22% from europe and 14% from various emerging market countries. each of the company's segments generates sales from these marketplaces. while the company believes any downturn in the european or emerging marketplaces might be offset to some degree by the relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a slowing or contracting chinese economy could reduce china's consumption and negatively impact the company's sales in that region, as well as globally; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers in those regions impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default, brexit, or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. with respect to brexit, until the terms of the uk's exit from the eu in march 2019 are determined, including any transition period, it is difficult to predict its impact. it is possible that the withdrawal could, among other things, affect the legal and regulatory environments to which the company's businesses are subject, impact trade between the uk and the eu and other parties and create economic and political uncertainty in the region. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant currency exposures are related to the euro, canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, brazilian real, argentine peso, chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, while income and expenses are translated using average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2018 , translational and transactional foreign currency fluctuations negatively impacted pre-tax earnings by approximately $100.0 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.55 . the translational and transactional impacts will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, 13 including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company generally does not hedge the translation of its non-u.s. dollar earnings in foreign subsidiaries, but may choose to do so in certain instances. the company sources many products from china and other low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has a five-year $2.0 billion committed credit facility and a 364-day $1.0 billion committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against either of these facilities at december 29, 2018 . the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ("adjusted ebitda"/"adjusted interest expense"); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense and stock-based compensation expense. the interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.5 times and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was 8.5 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2018 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in the past and may again in the future. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, changes in regulatory standards or industry practices, such as the transition away from libor to the secured overnight financing rate ("sofr") as a benchmark reference for short-term interests, could create incremental uncertainty in obtaining financing or increase the cost of borrowing. 14 furthermore, there could be a number of follow-on effects from a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as its access to the capital markets. the company's acquisitions, as well as general business reorganizations, may result in significant costs and certain risks for its business and operations. in 2018, the company completed the nelson acquisition as well as a number of other smaller acquisitions. in addition, the company reached an agreement to acquire international equipment solutions attachments group ("ies attachments"), which is expected to close in the first half of 2019, and may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the failure to identify the most suitable candidates for acquisitions; the ability to identify and close on appropriate acquisition opportunities within desired time frames at reasonable cost; the anticipated additional revenues from the acquired companies do not materialize, despite extensive due diligence; the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized; the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability; the diversion of company management's attention and other resources; the incurrence of unexpected costs and liabilities, including those associated with undisclosed pre-closing regulatory violations by the acquired business; and the loss of key personnel, clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on successful general reorganization including its ability to: combine businesses and operations; integrate departments, systems and procedures; and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from such reorganizations, including the company's functional transformation initiative. failure to effectively consummate or manage the pending ies attachments acquisition and any future acquisitions or general business reorganizations, and mitigate the related risks, may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, significant restructuring costs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, and/or adverse tax or other consequences. the company cannot ensure that such integrations and reorganizations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies and other benefits will be realized. expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic growth and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, 15 fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. significant judgment and certain estimates are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company considers many factors when evaluating and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments, and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. the company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still subject to audit based on the most currently available information, which involves inherent uncertainty. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any audit (or related litigation) could differ materially from amounts reflected in the company's income tax accruals. additionally, the global income tax provision can be materially impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar since a significant amount of the company's earnings are generated outside the united states. lastly, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act ( the act ). changes include, but are not limited to, a corporate tax rate decrease from 35% to 21% effective for tax years beginning after december 31, 2017, changes to u.s. international taxation, and a one-time transition tax on the mandatory deemed repatriation of cumulative foreign earnings as of december 31, 2017. following enactment of the act and the associated one-time transition tax, in general, repatriation of foreign earnings to the united states can be completed with no incremental u.s. tax. however, repatriation of foreign earnings could subject the company to u.s. state and non-u.s. jurisdictional taxes (including withholding taxes) on distributions. while repatriation of some foreign earnings held outside the united states may be restricted by local laws, most of the company's foreign earnings as of december 31, 2017 could be repatriated to the united states. pursuant to staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ( sab 118 ) issued by the sec in december 2017, issuers were permitted up to one year from the enactment of the act to complete the accounting for the income tax effects of the act ( the measurement period ). the company completed its accounting for the tax effects of the act within the measurement period and has included those effects in income taxes in the consolidated statements of operations. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, arrangements between the company and its distributors, franchisees or vendors, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. 16 the company's products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company's reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write-down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has approximately $9.0 billion of goodwill, approximately $2.2 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and approximately $1.3 billion of net definite-lived intangible assets at december 29, 2018 . the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2018 , the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of approximately $45 million and it expects to contribute $44 million to its defined benefit plans in 2019 . there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of the defined benefit plan assets at december 29, 2018 was approximately $2.0 billion . 17 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors 8 risk factors the company's business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995" in item 7, and in other documents that the company files with the sec, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company's business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company's securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company's securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company's business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers. in 2019, the two largest customers comprised approximately 25% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprising approximately 40% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties for the company's products, related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company's results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company's major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on the company's net sales. if customers in the convergent security solutions ("css") business are dissatisfied with services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons such as preference for digital technology products or other technology enhancements not then offered by css, the company's attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services the company provides. in times of tough economic conditions, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company's results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company's future results. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company's products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company's product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. operations excellence, an element of the new sbd operating model, is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company's business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the operations excellence principles to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring 8 actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted. similarly, if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors, the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company's business. a significant portion of the company's products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company's performance and prospects for future growth. the company's competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production, may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost, could adversely affect the company's results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in future years may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, evolving industry standards, or the emergence of new or disruptive technologies. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company's ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company's investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. the company's brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company's product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. any inability to protect the company's other intellectual property rights could also reduce the value of its products and services or diminish its competitiveness. the company considers its intellectual property rights, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets, and licenses held, to be a significant part and valuable aspect of its business. the company attempts to protect its intellectual property rights through a combination of patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, as well as licensing agreements and third party nondisclosure and assignment agreements. the company's trademarks have a reputation for quality and value and are important to the company's success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company's trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company's products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company's standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company's reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company's ongoing efforts to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. in addition, the company's ability to compete could be negatively impacted by its failure to obtain and adequately protect its intellectual property rights, including patents, copyrights, trade secrets, and licenses, as well as its products and any new features of its products or processes. the company's patent applications may not be approved and any patents owned could be challenged, invalidated or designed around by third parties. in addition, the company's patents may not be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or commercial advantage. the successful execution of the company's business strategy depends on its ability to recruit and retain highly qualified employees. the success of the company's efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives and management personnel, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and 9 motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. in addition, the company must invest heavily in reskilling and upskilling its employees, including placing an emphasis on lifelong learning. a shortage of key employees might jeopardize the company's ability to implement its growth strategy. the pace of technological change continues to accelerate and the company's ability to react effectively to such change may present significant competitive risks. the pace of technological change is increasing at an exponential rate. the continued creation, development and advancement of new technologies such as 5g data networks, artificial intelligence, blockchain, quantum computing, data analytics, 3-d printing, robotics, sensor technology, data storage, neural networks, augmented reality, amongst others, as well as other technologies in the future that are not foreseen today, continue to transform processes, products and services. the company will need to stay abreast of such technologies, require its employees to continue to learn and adapt to new technologies and be able to integrate them into its current and future business models, products, services and processes and also guard against existing and new competitors disrupting its business using such technologies. in addition, the company will need to compete for talent that is familiar with such technologies including upskilling its workforce. there can be no assurance that the company will continue to compete effectively with its industry peers due to technological changes, which could result in a material adverse effect on the company's business and results of operations. the company has significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, legal, economic and other risks arising from operating outside of the united states. the company generates a significant portion of its total revenue outside of the united states. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s. including intellectual property rights, which may not be recognized, and which the company may not be able to protect outside the u.s. to the same extent as under u.s. law; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery, anti-corruption, and sanctions regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements including those related to the u.s.'s relationship with china; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where the company operates, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; the increased possibility of cyber threats in certain jurisdictions; government controls limiting importation of goods; government controls limiting payments to suppliers for imported goods; limitations on, or impacts from, the repatriation of foreign earnings; and exposure to wage, price and capital controls. changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which the company operates could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in early 2020, an outbreak of the coronavirus occurred in china and other jurisdictions. the extent of the outbreak and its impact on the company's operations is uncertain. a prolonged outbreak could cause interruptions to the company's operations and its customers and suppliers. additionally, the company is subject to complex u.s., foreign and other local laws and regulations that are applicable to its operations abroad, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, the uk bribery act of 2010 and other anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. although the company has implemented internal controls, policies and procedures and employee training and compliance programs to deter prohibited practices, such measures may not be effective in preventing employees, contractors or agents from violating or circumventing such internal policies and violating applicable laws and regulations. any determination that the company has violated anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws or sanctions regulations could have a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations 10 that apply to the company's international operations increases the cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. violations of such laws and regulations may result in severe fines and penalties, criminal sanctions, administrative remedies or restrictions on business conduct, and could have a material adverse effect on the company's reputation, its ability to attract and retain employees, its business, operating results and financial condition. the company's business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company's products and materials are manufactured or imported from (including importation into the u.s. of the company's products manufactured overseas) may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. in recent years, changes in u.s. policy regarding international trade, including import and export regulation and international trade agreements, have negatively impacted the company's business. for example, in 2018 the u.s. imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum as well as on goods imported from china and certain other countries, which resulted in retaliatory tariffs by china and other countries. additional tariffs imposed by the u.s. on a broader range of imports, or further retaliatory trade measures taken by china or other countries in response, could result in an increase in supply chain costs that the company may not be able to offset or otherwise adversely impact the company's results of operations. furthermore, imported products and materials may be subject to future tariffs or other trade measures in the u.s. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or failure by the company's suppliers to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company's business. the company's operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the united states-mexico-canada agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company's business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union ("eu"), or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company's competitors source products. the company's ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company's business and financial condition. in addition, the company has a number of key suppliers in south korea. escalation of hostilities with north korea and/or military action in the region could cause disruptions in the company's supply chain which could, in turn, cause product shortages, delays in delivery and/or increases in the company's cost incurred to produce and deliver products to its customers. the company's success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve, or delays in achieving, projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company's results. the company is exposed to risks related to cybersecurity. the company's operations rely on the secure processing, storage and transmission of confidential, sensitive, proprietary and other types of information relating to its business operations, as well as confidential and sensitive information about its customers and employees maintained in the company's computer systems and networks, certain products and services, and in the computer systems and networks of its third-party vendors. cyber threats are rapidly evolving as data thieves and hackers have become increasingly sophisticated and carry out large-scale, complex automated attacks. the company may not be able to 11 anticipate or prevent all such attacks and could be held liable for any resulting security breach or data loss. in addition, it is not always possible to deter misconduct by employees or third-party vendors. breaches of the company's technology and systems, or those of the company's vendors, whether from circumvention of security systems, denial-of-service attacks or other cyber-attacks, hacking, phishing attacks, computer viruses, ransomware or malware, employee or insider error, malfeasance, social engineering, physical breaches or other actions, may result in manipulation or corruption of sensitive data, material interruptions or malfunctions in the company's or such vendors' websites, applications, data processing, and certain products and services, or disruption of other business operations. furthermore, any such breaches could compromise the confidentiality and integrity of material information held by the company (including information about the company's business, employees or customers), as well as sensitive personally identifiable information ( pii ), the disclosure of which could lead to identity theft. measures that the company takes to avoid, detect, mitigate or recover from material incidents, including implementing and conducting training on insider trading policies for the company's employees and maintaining contractual obligations for the company's third-party vendors, can be expensive, and may be insufficient, circumvented, or may become ineffective. the company has invested and continues to invest in risk management and information security and data privacy measures in order to protect its systems and data, including employee training, organizational investments, incident response plans, table top exercises and technical defenses. the cost and operational consequences of implementing, maintaining and enhancing further data or system protection measures could increase significantly to overcome increasingly intense, complex, and sophisticated global cyber threats. despite the company's best efforts, it is not fully insulated from data breaches and system disruptions. recent well-publicized security breaches at other companies have led to enhanced government and regulatory scrutiny of the measures taken by companies to protect against cyber-attacks, and may in the future result in heightened cybersecurity requirements, including additional regulatory expectations for oversight of vendors and service providers. any material breaches of cybersecurity, including the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data, or media reports of perceived security vulnerabilities to the company's systems, products and services or those of the company's third parties, even if no breach has been attempted or occurred, could cause the company to experience reputational harm, loss of customers and revenue, fines, regulatory actions and scrutiny, sanctions or other statutory penalties, litigation, liability for failure to safeguard the company's customers' information, or financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by the company. any of the foregoing may have a material adverse effect on the company's business, operating results and financial condition. the company is exposed to risks related to compliance with data privacy laws. to conduct its operations, the company regularly moves data across national borders, and consequently is subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to the company is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union law and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches. similarly, the california consumer privacy act of 2018 ( ccpa ), which was enacted in june 2018 and came into effect on january 1, 2020, provides a new private right of action for data breaches and requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use and sharing practices and allow consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties. the company's reputation and brand and its ability to attract new customers could also be adversely impacted if the company fails, or is perceived to have failed, to properly respond to security breaches of its or third party's information technology systems. such failure to properly respond could also result in similar exposure to liability. additionally, other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. in many cases, these laws and regulations apply not only to transfers between unrelated third parties but also to transfers between the company and its subsidiaries. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements impose significant costs that are likely to increase over time. implementation of the gdpr and ccpa and other data localization laws will continue to require changes to certain business practices, thereby increasing costs, or may result in negative publicity, require significant management time and attention, and may subject the company to remedies that may harm its business, including fines or demands or orders that the company modify or cease existing business practices. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions or other costs associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. 12 the company relies heavily on computer systems, including those of third parties, to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the company's various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations and maintaining insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company's systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, system failures or computer viruses. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. additionally, the company relies on software applications and enterprise cloud storage systems and cloud computing services provided by third-party vendors, and the company's business may be adversely affected by service disruptions or security breaches in such third-party systems. in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company's computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company's operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. factors that are hard to predict or beyond the company's control, like weather (including any potential effects of climate change), natural disasters, supply and commodity shortages, fire, explosions, terrorism, political unrest, cybersecurity breaches, generalized labor unrest or health pandemics could damage or disrupt the company's infrastructure, or that of its suppliers or distributors. if the company does not effectively plan for or respond to disruptions in its operations, or cannot quickly repair damage to its information, production or supply systems, the company may be late in delivering or unable to deliver products and services to its customers, and the quality and safety of its products and services might be negatively affected. if a material or extended disruption occurs, the company may lose its customers' or business partners' confidence or suffer damage to its reputation, and long-term consumer demand for its products and services could decline. although the company maintains business interruption insurance, it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. these events could materially and adversely affect the company's product sales, financial condition and results of operations. the company's results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company's products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, and nickel. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, resins, wood and corrugated products. the company's cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices, and there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company's purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates, currently available to the company or to its suppliers, could also increase the costs of the company's manufactured products, as well as purchased products and components, and could adversely affect the company's results. 13 in addition, many of the company's products incorporate battery technology. as other industries begin to adopt similar battery technology for use in their products, the increased demand could place capacity constraints on the company's supply chain. in addition, increased demand for battery technology may also increase the costs to the company for both the battery cells as well as the underlying raw materials. if the company is unable to mitigate any possible supply constraints or related increased costs, its profitably and financial results could be negatively impacted. uncertainty about the financial stability of economies outside the u.s. could have a significant adverse effect on the company's business, results of operations and financial condition. the company generates approximately 41% of its revenues outside the u.s., including 20% from europe and 13% from various emerging market countries. each of the company's segments generates sales in these marketplaces. while the company believes any downturn in the european or emerging marketplaces might be offset to some degree by the relative stability in north america, the company's future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for products and services; customers may implement cost reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a slowing or contracting chinese economy could reduce china's consumption and negatively impact the company's sales in that region, as well as globally; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers in those regions impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of foreign currencies could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; the impact of an event (individual country default, brexit, or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company's ability to access these credit markets and to raise capital. continuing uncertainty associated with brexit could adversely affect the company's business. while the uk parliament has voted to approve the withdrawal/transition agreement negotiated by the eu and the uk government, significant uncertainty remains with respect to the impacts of brexit. brexit could adversely affect european or worldwide political, regulatory, economic or market conditions and could contribute to instability in global political institutions, regulatory agencies and financial markets. any impact from brexit on the company's business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the uk conducts. in particular, the company's operations in the uk will be particularly exposed to the risks and uncertainties relating to brexit. depending on the terms of brexit, the uk could lose access to the single eu market and to the global trade deals negotiated by the eu on behalf of its members. the bank of england and other observers have warned of a significant probability of a brexit-related recession in the uk. volatility in exchanges rates, including potential declines in the value of the british pound, and in interest rates are also expected. disruptions and uncertainty caused by brexit may also cause customers to closely monitor their costs and reduce their spending budget on the company's products and services. these impacts could cause a significant decline in revenue as the company generates approximately 4% of its revenues in the uk. in addition, as the uk determines which eu laws to replace or replicate, brexit could lead to potentially divergent national laws and regulations, which could result in an uncertain and difficult regulatory environment that could negatively impact the company's uk business. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company's predominant currency exposures are related to the euro, canadian dollar, british pound, australian dollar, brazilian real, argentine peso, chinese renminbi ( rmb ) and the taiwan dollar. in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, while income and expenses are translated using average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on 14 translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company's earnings could be negatively impacted. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company generally does not hedge the translation of its non-u.s. dollar earnings in foreign subsidiaries, but may choose to do so in certain instances. the company sources many products from china and other low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, and may in the future issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company's access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company's ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 , the company has a five-year $2.0 billion committed credit facility and a 364-day $1.0 billion committed credit facility. no amounts were outstanding against either of these facilities at december 28, 2019 . the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company's current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ("adjusted ebitda"/"adjusted interest expense"); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense and stock-based compensation expense. the interest coverage ratio must not be less than 3.5 times and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was 7.8 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2019 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time, the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company's hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company's results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company's ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company's long-term growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets have experienced extreme volatility and disruption in the past and may again in the future. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. 15 furthermore, there could be a number of follow-on effects from a credit crisis on the company's businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company's products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company's ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as its access to the capital markets. discontinuation, reform or replacement of the london inter-bank offered rate ("libor") and other benchmark rates, or uncertainty related to the potential for any of the foregoing, may adversely affect the company. the uk financial conduct authority announced in 2017 that it intends to phase out libor by the end of 2021. in addition, other regulators have suggested reforming or replacing other benchmark rates. these may be replaced by the secured overnight financing rate ( sofr ) or other benchmark rates over the next several years. the discontinuation, reform or replacement of libor or any other benchmark rates may have an unpredictable impact on contractual mechanics in the credit markets or cause disruption to the broader financial markets. these changes, and related uncertainty as to the nature of such potential discontinuation, reform or replacement may create incremental uncertainty in obtaining financing or increase the cost of borrowing. at this time, the company cannot predict the overall effect of the modification or discontinuation of libor or the establishment of alternative benchmark rates. the company's acquisitions, as well as general business reorganizations, may result in significant costs and certain risks for its business and operations. in 2019, the company completed the ies attachments acquisition as well as a number of other smaller acquisitions. in addition, the company reached an agreement in january 2020 to acquire consolidated aerospace manufacturing, llc ("cam") and may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the failure to identify the most suitable candidates for acquisitions; the ability to identify and close on appropriate acquisition opportunities within desired time frames at reasonable cost; the anticipated additional revenues from the acquired companies do not materialize, despite extensive due diligence; the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized; the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability; the diversion of company management's attention and other resources; the incurrence of unexpected costs and liabilities, including those associated with undisclosed pre-closing regulatory violations by the acquired business; and the loss of key personnel, clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company's long-term growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on successful general reorganization including its ability to: combine businesses and operations; integrate departments, systems and procedures; and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from such reorganizations, including the company's margin resiliency initiative. failure to effectively consummate or manage the pending cam acquisition and any future acquisitions or general business reorganizations, and mitigate the related risks, may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, significant restructuring costs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, and/or adverse tax or other consequences. the company cannot ensure that such integrations and reorganizations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies and other benefits will be realized. expansion of the company's activity in emerging markets may result in risks due to differences in business practices and cultures. 16 the company's growth plans include efforts to increase revenue from emerging markets through both organic growth and acquisitions. local business practices in these regions may not comply with u.s. laws, local laws or other laws applicable to the company. when investigating potential acquisitions, the company seeks to identify historical practices of target companies that would create liability or other exposures for the company were they to continue post-completion or as a successor to the target. where such practices are discovered, the company assesses the risk to determine whether it is prepared to proceed with the transaction. in assessing the risk, the company looks at, among other factors, the nature of the violation, the potential liability, including any fines or penalties that might be incurred, the ability to avoid, minimize or obtain indemnity for the risks, and the likelihood that the company would be able to ensure that any such practices are discontinued following completion of the acquisition through implementation of its own policies and procedures. due diligence and risk assessment are, however, imperfect processes, and it is possible that the company will not discover problematic practices until after completion, or that the company will underestimate the risks associated with historical activities. should that occur, the company may incur fees, fines, penalties, injury to its reputation or other damage that could negatively impact the company's earnings. significant judgment and certain estimates are required in determining the company's worldwide provision for income taxes. future tax law changes and audit results may materially increase the company's prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining the company's worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company considers many factors when evaluating and estimating its tax positions and tax benefits, which may require periodic adjustments, and which may not accurately anticipate actual outcomes. the company periodically assesses its liabilities and contingencies for all tax years still subject to audit based on the most currently available information, which involves inherent uncertainty. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of any audit (or related litigation) could differ materially from amounts reflected in the company's income tax accruals. additionally, the global income tax provision can be materially impacted due to foreign currency fluctuations against the u.s. dollar since a significant amount of the company's earnings are generated outside the united states. lastly, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company's worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes enacted. the company's failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, arrangements between the company and its distributors, franchisees or vendors, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company's products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company's operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company's reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company's estimates for such contingent liabilities. 17 the company's products could be recalled. the company maintains an awareness of and responsibility for the potential health and safety impacts on its customers. the company's product development processes include tollgates for product safety review, and extensive testing is conducted on product safety. safety reviews are performed at various product development milestones, including a review of product labeling and marking to ensure safety and operational hazards are identified for the customer. despite safety and quality reviews, the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require, or the company may voluntarily institute, the recall, repair or replacement of the company's products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase the company's costs and adversely impact its reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company's outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write-down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the black and decker merger and other acquisitions, the company has approximately $9.2 billion of goodwill, approximately $2.2 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and approximately $1.4 billion of net definite-lived intangible assets at december 28, 2019 . the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives and are evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company's control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company's defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company's funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2019 , the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of approximately $48 million and expects to contribute $38 million to its defined benefit plans in 2020 . there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of the defined benefit plan assets at december 28, 2019 was approximately $2.2 billion . 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 47 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, financial instruments , of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8 .risk factors risk factors the company business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 , and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company securities. if the current weakness continues in the housing and construction markets in the americas, europe or asia, or general recessionary conditions worsen, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. approximately 37% of 2008 sales were in the construction and do-it-yourself segment, and 29% in the industrial segment. the company experienced 10% sales unit volume declines in existing businesses, i.e. excluding acquisitions, in the fourth quarter of 2008, and 7% in the third quarter, primarily in these segments, as the recession spread worldwide. the company business has been adversely affected by the decline in the u.s. and international economies, particularly with respect to housing and general construction markets. it is 4 table of contents possible this softness will be prolonged and to the extent it persists there is likely to be an unfavorable impact on sales, earnings and cash flows. it is possible the security segment, which thus far has not experienced significant recession-related volume declines, may become more affected if the recessionary impacts permeate other market sectors, particularly construction within the retail sector. further deterioration of these housing and construction markets, and general economic conditions, could reduce demand for company products and therefore have a material adverse effect on sales, earnings and cash flows. in addition, due to current economic conditions, it is possible certain customers credit-worthiness may erode resulting in increased write-offs of customer receivables. the company growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. the company recent acquisitions may not further its strategies and the company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. in 2002, the company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby reduce the risk associated with large customer concentrations. the strategy has been advanced over the last several years with the sales of the company cst/berger laser measuring, residential entry door and home d cor businesses, and the acquisition of a number of companies, including general de protection ( gdp ), xmark corporation ( xmark ), sonitrol corporation ( sonitrol ), hsm electronic protection services, inc. ( hsm ), facom s.a. ( facom ), national manufacturing co. ( national ), besco pneumatic corporation ( besco ), blick plc ( blick ), frisco bay industries ltd ( frisco bay ), isr solutions, inc. ( isr ), security group, inc. ( security group ) and best lock corporation and its affiliates ( best access ). although the company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated or that anticipated synergies will be realized. if the company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and repositioning strategies. the company acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. the company has made a number of acquisitions in the past three years, including, but not limited to: gdp in october 2008, sonitrol and xmark in july 2008, innerspace in july 2007, hsm in january 2007, besco in july 2006, and facom in january 2006. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of company management attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. any intangible assets that the company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed. in addition, the success of the company future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to: combine operations, integrate departments, systems and procedures, and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company existing businesses and harm its operational results. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of gdp, xmark, sonitrol, innerspace and other acquisitions with its existing businesses and 5 table of contents operations. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. the company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as more fully described in item 7 and note i, long-term debt and financing arrangements, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company issued $450 million of enhanced trust preferred securities through its trust subsidiary in 2005, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisitions of facom and national. in march 2007, the company completed concurrent offerings of floating rate equity units and 5% senior notes due 2010, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisition of hsm. in addition, the company has a revolving credit agreement, expiring in february 2013, enabling borrowings up to $800 million. this agreement includes provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in euros and pounds sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; maintenance of specified financial ratios. failure to maintain such ratios could adversely affect further access to liquidity and require the company to pay all interest coupons on certain debt securities through the issuance of common stock before making further dividend payments on its common shares outstanding; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; and customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions that affect the cost of raw materials, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods. the company products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin. additionally, the company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. the company cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. as described in more detail in item 7 hereto, the company has been negatively impacted by inflation in recent years. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. tightening of capital and credit markets could adversely affect the company by limiting the company or its customers ability to borrow or otherwise obtain cash. the company growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product 6 table of contents lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets have been experiencing extreme volatility and disruption in late 2008 and early 2009 which could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the company business, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company products and/or customer insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the company treasury operations. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company, through its global operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british, and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi ( rmb ). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company earnings could be negatively impacted. this occurred in the latter half of 2008 and is expected to persist in 2009. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. while the 7% appreciation of the rmb which occurred in both 2007 and 2008 has not generated material cost increases for products sourced from china, further significant appreciation of the rmb or other currencies in countries where the company sources product could adversely impact profitability. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company suppliers failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company business. the company operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets such as the u.s. or the european union, or make it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries, where the company competitors source products. the company ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and 7 table of contents shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company business and financial condition. large customer concentrations and related customer inventory adjustments may negatively impact sales, results of operations and cash flows. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represents more than 10% of consolidated net sales. the loss or material reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the company products related to, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations and cash flows. in addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. for example, severe inventory adjustments (pertaining to reducing the number of weeks supply on hand) taken by certain large north american home center customers in december 2005 negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million versus normal levels. significant impacts from customer inventory adjustments may re-occur in the future. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. a substantial portion of the company products in the cdiy and industrial segments are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of acquisitions, the company has $1.747 billion of goodwill, $300 million of indefinite-lived trade names, and $557 million of definite-lived intangible assets recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at january 3, 2009. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company. future tax law changes may materially increase the company prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes 8 table of contents effective. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. as described in further detail in items 1 and 3 and note t, contingencies, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company ability to implement its growth strategy. the company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. 9 table of contents the stanley fulfillment system ( sfs ) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other facilities. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, the company systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. management believes it has effective disaster recovery plans and that it is unlikely there would be more than a short-lived disruption to its computer and communication systems due to these physical concentrations of equipment, or from potential occurrences of damage and interruption. however, it is reasonably possible that results could be adversely impacted if equipment outages were prolonged due to an unusually serious event. in addition, the company is planning system conversions to sap to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. the implementations from legacy systems to sap will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of several years in the americas, and ultimately thereafter in europe and asia. management believes the planned system conversions are cost-beneficial and will further enhance productivity in its operations. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results of operations. the company operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. 10 table of contents if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating and other expenses. certain u.s. employee benefit plan expense is affected by the market value of the company common stock. as described in further detail in note m, employee benefit plans, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans, as well as an employee stock ownership plan ( esop ) under which the primary u.s. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. the company defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money market instruments. the company funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. the company expects to contribute approximately $20 million to its pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans in 2009. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. during 2008 there was a $71 million loss on pension plan assets. the fair value of these assets at january 3, 2009 was $265 million. overall esop expense is affected by the market value of stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other factors. net esop expense amounted to $11 million in 2008 and $2 million in both 2007 and 2006. the increase in expense was mostly attributable to the average market value of shares released which decreased from $49.28 in 2006 to $43.65 in 2008. however, the company has discontinued the 401(k) and other defined contribution benefits in the esop for 2009 as part of its cost reduction initiatives and thus there will be a reduction in fiscal 2009 expense. in the event these defined contribution benefits are offered again, esop expense could increase in the future if the market value of the company common stock declines. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company financial condition and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and the material in note j, financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements inrisk factors risk factors the company business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 , and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company securities. if the current weakness continues in the retail, residential and commercial markets in the americas, europe or asia, or general economic conditions worsen, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. approximately 35% of 2009 sales were in the cdiy segment and 24% in the industrial segment. the company experienced a 20% sales unit volume decline in its existing businesses, (i.e. excluding acquisitions) during 2009, primarily in these two segments, as the recession spread worldwide. the company businesses have been adversely affected by the decline in the u.s. and international economies, particularly with respect to residential and commercial markets. it is possible this softness will be prolonged and to the extent it persists there may be an unfavorable impact on sales, earnings and cash flows. it is possible the security segment, which experienced an 8% unit volume declines in existing businesses in 2009, may become more affected if the economic weakness permeates other market sectors it serves. further deterioration of these retail, residential or commercial construction markets, or in general economic conditions, could reduce demand for company products and therefore have a material adverse effect on sales, earnings and cash flows. in addition, due to current economic conditions, it is possible certain customers credit-worthiness may erode resulting in increased write-offs of customer receivables. 5 table of contents the company growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. the company recent acquisitions may not further its strategies and the company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. in 2002, the company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures. the strategy has been advanced over the last several years with the acquisition of a number of companies, including general de protection ( gdp ), xmark corporation ( xmark ), sonitrol corporation ( sonitrol ), hsm electronic protection services, inc. ( hsm ), facom s.a. ( facom ), national manufacturing co. ( national ), besco pneumatic corporation ( besco ), blick plc ( blick ), frisco bay industries ltd ( frisco bay ), isr solutions, inc. ( isr ), security group, inc. ( security group ) and best lock corporation and its affiliates ( best access ). although the company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated or that anticipated synergies will be realized. if the company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and repositioning strategies. the company acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. the company made six small acquisitions in 2009 and a number of more significant acquisitions in 2008 and 2007, including, but not limited to: gdp in october 2008, sonitrol and xmark in july 2008, innerspace in july 2007, and hsm in january 2007. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of company management attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. any intangible assets that the company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed. in addition, the success of the company future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to: combine operations, integrate departments, systems and procedures, and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company existing businesses and harm its operational results. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of gdp. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. on november 2, 2009 the company announced that it has entered into a definitive merger agreement with black decker in an all-stock transaction. under the terms of the agreement, which has been approved by the boards of directors of the company and black decker, each outstanding share of black decker will be converted into the right to receive 1.275 shares of the company common stock. upon closing it is expected that the company shareholders will own approximately 50.5% of the equity of the combined company and black decker shareholders will own approximately 49.5%. the company expects the transaction, which is subject to, among other things, the approval of the merger by black decker shareholders, the approval of the issuance of the company common stock and certain amendments to the company certificate of incorporation by the company shareholders, as well as customary regulatory approvals and closing conditions, to close on march 12, 2010. please read the section entitled risk factors beginning on page 19 of the joint proxy statement/prospectus contained in the company registration statement on form s-4, as amended, filed with the securities and exchange commission on february 2, 2010, for certain risks associated with this particular transaction. 6 table of contents the company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as more fully described in item 1, on november 2, 2009 the company entered into an agreement and plan of merger with black decker which has been approved by the boards of directors of both companies. the merger will entail a material issuance of common stock if consummated. as more fully described in item 7 and note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company completed concurrent offerings of floating rate equity units and 5% senior notes due 2010, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisition of hsm. in addition, the company has a committed revolving credit agreement, expiring in february 2013, supporting borrowings up to $800 million. this agreement includes provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in euros and pounds sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of specified financial ratios. failure to maintain such ratios could adversely affect further access to liquidity and require the company to pay all interest coupons on certain debt securities through the issuance of common stock before making further dividend payments on its common shares outstanding. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its $800 million revolving credit facility. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ), as both terms are defined in the debt agreement. adjusted ebitda represents earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, excluding certain restructuring charges and with interest expense adjusted as follows. adjusted interest expense excludes imputed (non-cash) interest expense in respect of convertible bonds issued by the company as calculated in accordance with the financial accounting standards board accounting standards codification 470-20, debt with conversion and other options . the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 adjusted ebitda to 1.0 adjusted interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was 10 times adjusted ebitda or higher in each of the 2009 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions that affect the cost of raw materials, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods. the company products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin. additionally, the company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. the company cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. as described in more detail in item 7 hereto, the company has been negatively impacted by inflation in recent years. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. 7 table of contents conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. tight capital and credit markets could adversely affect the company by limiting the company or its customers ability to borrow or otherwise obtain cash. the company growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in late 2008 and in early 2009. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on the company businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company products and/or customer insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the company treasury operations. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company, through its global operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british, and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi ( rmb ). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2009, foreign currency translation negatively impacted earnings by $0.04 per diluted share. the translation impact has been more material in the past and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company suppliers failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company business. the company operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company competitors source products. the company ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company business and financial condition. 8 table of contents large customer concentrations and related customer inventory adjustments may negatively impact sales, results of operations and cash flows. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represents more than 10% of consolidated net sales. the loss or material reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the company products related to, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations and cash flows. in addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. during 2009 the company experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the industrial segment generally sells to distributors where the company does not have point of sale data to see end user demand trends, however, a substantial portion of the overall 30% volume declines within the industrial segment is believed to be attributable to such de-stocking or customer inventory adjustments . the company results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. a substantial portion of the company products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of acquisitions, the company has $1.818 billion of goodwill, $305 million of indefinite-lived trade names, and $472 million of definite-lived intangible assets at january 2, 2010. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company. future tax law changes may materially increase the company prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. as described in further detail in items 1 and 3 and note s, contingencies, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters. 9 table of contents there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company ability to implement its growth strategy. the company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. the stanley fulfillment system ( sfs ) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other facilities. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. 10 table of contents despite efforts to prevent such situations, and insurance policies that partially mitigate these risks, the company systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. management believes it has effective disaster recovery plans and that it is unlikely there would be more than a short-lived disruption to its computer and communication systems due to these physical concentrations of equipment, or from potential occurrences of damage and interruption. however, it is reasonably possible that results could be adversely impacted if equipment outages were prolonged due to an unusually serious event. in addition, the company is planning system conversions to sap to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. the implementations from legacy systems to sap will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of several years in the americas, and ultimately thereafter in europe and asia. management believes the planned system conversions are cost-beneficial and will further enhance productivity in its operations. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results of operations. the company operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating and other expenses. certain u.s. employee and director benefit plan expense is affected by the market value of the company common stock. as described in further detail in note l, employee benefit plans, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans, as well as an employee stock ownership plan ( esop ) under which the primary u.s. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. the company defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money market instruments. the company funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. the company expects to contribute approximately $17 million to its pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans in 2010. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. during 2009 there was a $48 million gain on pension plan assets. the fair value of these assets at january 2, 2010 was $320 million. overall esop expense is affected by the market value of stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other factors. net esop activity amounted to income of $8 million in 2009, and expense of $11 million and $2 million in both 2008 and 2007, respectively. the esop income in 2009 stems from the suspension of certain employee benefits as part of cost saving actions. the company has reinstated these benefits in 2010 and expects there will be an increase in expense in 2010 more aligned with 2008 and prior years. the increase in expense from 2007 to 2008 was mostly attributable to the average market value of shares released which decreased from $56.04 in 2007 to $43.65 in 2008 as well as increased benefits pertaining to headcount expansions related to acquisitions. esop expense could increase in the future if the market value of the company common stock declines. 11 table of contents the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company financial condition and operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and the material in note i, derivative financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 8 risk factors the company business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 , and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company securities. if the pace of recovery in the retail, residential and commercial markets in the americas, europe or asia is sluggish, or general economic conditions do not improve, it could have a material adverse effect on the company business. the company conducts business in various parts of the world, primarily in the united states and europe and, to a lesser extent, in mexico, central america, the caribbean, south america, canada, asia and australia. as a result of this worldwide exposure, the company businesses could be adversely affected by a decline in the u.s. and international economies, particularly with respect to residential and commercial markets, including, but not limited to recession, inflation or deflation. it is possible any such softness may result in an unfavorable impact on sales, earnings and cash flows. also, any deterioration of retail, automotive, residential or commercial construction markets, changes in consumer purchasing power or in general economic conditions, could reduce demand for company products and therefore have a material adverse effect on sales, earnings and cash flows. in addition, due to such economic conditions, it is possible certain customers credit-worthiness may erode resulting in increased write-offs of customer receivables. the failure to successfully integrate the businesses of stanley and black decker in the expected time frame could adversely affect the company future results. the success of the merger will depend, in large part, on the ability of the company to realize the anticipated benefits, including cost savings, from combining the businesses of stanley and black decker. to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of stanley and black decker must be successfully integrated. this integration is complex and time-consuming. the failure to integrate successfully and to manage successfully the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company not achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger; potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: the inability to successfully integrate the businesses of stanley and black decker in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger; the inability to implement information technology system changes to get the combined businesses on common platforms; lost sales and customers as a result of customers of either of the two companies deciding not to do business with the combined company; 8 table of contents complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; integrating personnel from the two companies while maintaining focus on providing consistent, high quality products; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses, delays or regulatory conditions associated with the merger; and performance shortfalls at one or both of the companies as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by integrating the companies operations. the company has incurred, and will continue to incur, substantial integration-related expenses resulting from the merger. the company will continue to incur substantial expenses in connection with the merger and the integration of black decker including certain restructuring actions that may be taken to achieve synergies. approximately $200 million of pre-tax restructuring and integration expense pertaining to the merger is expected to be incurred over the next two years, in order to achieve an additional estimated $290 million of pre-tax annualized synergy benefits. there are a large number of processes, policies, procedures, operations, technologies and systems that must be integrated, including purchasing, accounting and finance, sales, billing, payroll, manufacturing, marketing and benefits. while the company has assumed an estimated $200 million of expenses will be incurred, there are many factors beyond its control that could affect the total amount or the timing of the integration expenses. moreover, many of the expenses that will be incurred are, by their nature, difficult to estimate accurately. these expenses could, particularly in the near term, exceed the savings that the company expects to achieve from the elimination of duplicative expenses and the realization of economies of scale and cost savings. during 2010 the company incurred $538 million of pre-tax merger and acquisition-related charges primarily related to restructuring costs associated with facility closures, employee severance charges, certain executive compensation charges, investment banking fees, and integration related advisory and consulting fees. while management believes the $200 million estimate is reasonable, the amount of future integration expense is not certain and could result in the company taking significant additional charges against earnings in future periods. the company growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. the company may not be able to successfully integrate the operations of recent acquisitions and the company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. in 2002, the company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures. the strategy has been advanced over the last several years with the merger and the acquisition of a number of companies, including stanley solutions de curit ( ssds ), crc-evans pipeline international ( crc-evans ), gmt, infologix, g n rale de protection ( gdp ), xmark corporation ( xmark ), sonitrol corporation ( sonitrol ), and hsm electronic protection services, inc. ( hsm ). the company expends significant resources identifying opportunities to acquire new lines of business and companies that could contribute to its success and expansion into existing and new markets. although the company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will be realized. if the company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that these acquired businesses will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and repositioning strategies. if the company is unable to successfully integrate acquisitions, it could have a material adverse affect on its business, financial condition and future growth. 9 table of contents the company acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. in addition to the merger, the company made one other significant acquisition of crc-evans in 2010 in addition to nine smaller acquisitions, six small acquisitions in 2009, and a number of more significant acquisitions in 2008, including, but not limited to: gdp in october 2008 and sonitrol and xmark in july 2008. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of company management attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. any intangible assets that the company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed. in addition, the success of the company future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to: combine operations, integrate departments, systems and procedures, and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of black decker, crc-evans, ssds and certain other smaller acquisitions made in the past two years. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company has a committed revolving credit agreement, expiring in february 2013, supporting borrowings up to $800 million. upon closing of the merger, the company entered into a $700 million revolving credit agreement that became effective on march 12, 2010 and will expire in march 2011. these agreements include provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in euros and pounds sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense, certain restructuring and other merger and acquisition-related charges as well 10 table of contents as stock-based compensation expense. the adjustments to interest expense and ebitda for purposes of this interest coverage ratio computation are defined in the debt agreements included as exhibits 10.1, 10.2(a), 10.2(b) and 10.2(c) of this form 10k. the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 ebitda to 1.0 interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 11 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2010 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company results of operations. the company results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum and nickel, and resin also represents a significant commodity used in production. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. the company cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. an increase in value-added tax rebates currently available to the company or to its suppliers, could also increase the costs of the company manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company results of operations. tight capital and credit markets could adversely affect the company by limiting the company or its customers ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in late 2008 and in early 2009. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis 11 table of contents on the company businesses, including: insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company products and/or customer insolvencies; and failure of derivative counterparties and other financial institutions negatively impacting the company treasury operations. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sell its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british, and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi ( rmb ). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2010, foreign currency translation positively impacted earnings by $0.04 per diluted share. the translation impact has been more material in the past and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company suppliers failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company business. the company operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company competitors source products. the company ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on 12 table of contents short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company business and financial condition. the company success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has also undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company results of operations. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2010. however, on a pro-forma basis (as if black decker were part of the company results for the entire year 2010), the two largest customers comprised nearly 21% of net sales and u.s. mass merchants and home centers collectively comprised approximately 31% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. during 2009 the company experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the industrial segment generally sells to distributors where the company does not have point of sale data to see end user demand trends; however, a substantial portion of the overall volume declines within the industrial segment was believed to be attributable to such de-stocking or customer inventory adjustments. the company results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company future results. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. a significant portion of the company products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the merger and previous acquisitions, the company has $5.942 billion of goodwill, $1.652 billion of indefinite-lived trade names, and $1.220 billion of definite-lived intangible assets at january 1, 2011. the 13 table of contents company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company. future tax law changes may materially increase the company prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future, be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company standards of 14 table of contents quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company ability to implement its growth strategy. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. the stanley fulfillment system ( sfs ) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. 15 table of contents despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices, that partially mitigate these risks, the company systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. in addition, the company is in the process of implementing system conversions to sap to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results of operations. the company operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of our suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for our products and make it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products, deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from suppliers. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money market instruments. the company funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2010, the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $277 million and it expects to contribute approximately $140 million to its defined benefit plans in 2011. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at january 1, 2011 was $1.751 billion. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company financial condition and operating results. 16 table of contents low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company performance and prospects for future growth. the company competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production, may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost, could adversely affect the company results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in 2011 may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. the company products could be subject to product liability claims and litigation. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. the company products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company reputation. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and the material in note i, derivative financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements inquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. -------------------------------------------------------------------- the company incorporates by reference the material captioned "market risk" in item 7. and note i of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 8.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the company incorporates by reference the material captioned "market risk" in item 7 and the material in note j of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned "market risk" in item 7 and the material in note j of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this form 10-k.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned "market risk" in item 7 and the material in note j financial instruments of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this form 10-k.&emsp;risk factors the company&rsquo;s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the 4 heading entitled &lsquo;&lsquo;cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995&rsquo;&rsquo;, and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company&rsquo;s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company&rsquo;s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company&rsquo;s securities. large customer concentration and related inventory corrections may negatively impact sales, results of operations and cash flows. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers such as the home depot, lowe&rsquo;s and wal-mart. the home depot individually accounted for 12% of the company&rsquo;s consolidated net sales from continuing operations in the year ended december 31, 2005. the loss or material reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the company&rsquo;s products by, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s results of operations and cash flows. in addition, unanticipated inventory corrections by such customers can have a negative impact on sales. for example, severe inventory corrections taken by certain large north american home center customers in december 2005 negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million against normal levels. such corrections have also impacted sales in the first quarter of 2006. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s business. a substantial portion of the company&rsquo;s products in the consumer products and industrial tools segments are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company's business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. the company's growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. the company&rsquo;s recent acquisitions may not further its strategies and the company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. in 2002, the company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby to reduce the risk associated with large customer concentrations. the strategy has been advanced over the last three years with the sales of the company's residential entry door and home d&eacute;cor businesses, and the acquisition of a number of companies, including facom s.a. (&lsquo;&lsquo;facom&rsquo;&rsquo;), national manufacturing co. (&lsquo;&lsquo;national&rsquo;&rsquo;), best lock corporation and its affiliates (&lsquo;&lsquo;best access&rsquo;&rsquo;), chicago steel tape co. and affiliates (&lsquo;&lsquo;cst/berger&rsquo;&rsquo;), blick plc (&lsquo;&lsquo;blick&rsquo;&rsquo;), frisco bay industries ltd (&lsquo;&lsquo;frisco bay&rsquo;&rsquo;), isr solutions, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;isr&rsquo;&rsquo;), security group, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;security group&rsquo;&rsquo;) and precision hardware, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;precision&rsquo;&rsquo;). although the company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated and effectively implement the company&rsquo;s growth and repositioning strategy. if the company successfully integrates the transactions and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new company as necessary to continue growth and repositioning strategies. the company&rsquo;s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. the company has made a number of acquisitions in the past three years, including, but not limited to, facom in january 2006, national in november 2005, precision in may 2005, security 5 group in january 2005, isr in december 2004, frisco bay in march 2004, cst/berger and blick in january 2004 and best access in november 2002. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: &bull; the diversion of the company's management's attention and other resources, &bull; the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and &bull; the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. any intangible assets that the company acquires may have a negative effect on its financial statements. in addition, the success of the company's future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to: &bull; combine operations, &bull; integrate departments, systems and procedures, and &bull; obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company's existing businesses and harm its operational results. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of best access, blick, cst/berger, isr, security group, precision, facom, national and other acquisitions with its existing businesses and operations, and the company cannot ensure that such integration will be successfully completed. the company may incur significant additional indebtedness, enter into other financing arrangements or issue additional equity securities in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business, limit the company&rsquo;s ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as more fully described in item 7 and note i long-term debt and financing arrangements of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company issued $450 million of enhanced trust preferred securities through its trust subsidiary, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisitions of facom and national. in addition, the company recently amended its five year revolving credit agreement, increasing the size from $400 million to $550 million, and including provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in euros and pound sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company&rsquo;s current indebtedness contain, and instruments and agreements governing indebtedness incurred in the future may contain, restrictive covenants that include, among other things: &bull; a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; &bull; maintenance of specified financial ratios; &bull; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; and &bull; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company&rsquo;s brands are an important asset of its business and violation of its trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact sales and brand reputation. the company&rsquo;s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized imitation of its products or unauthorized use of its trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company&rsquo;s products, but may also cause significant 6 damage to its brand name and reputation, its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, as well as divert management time and attention. there can be no assurance that the company&rsquo;s on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. in addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow the company to protect its proprietary rights to the same extent as it is able to in the united states. the company has trademark licensing programs and licensees may not comply with product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements. the company licenses its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of various products. while it enters into comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, such licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. non-compliance could include marketing products under the company&rsquo;s brand names that do not meet its quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet the company&rsquo;s supplier code of conduct. these activities could harm brand equity, reputation and business. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company&rsquo;s ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company&rsquo;s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company&rsquo;s ability to implement its growth strategy. the company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company&rsquo;s products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor costs are substantially lower than in the united states, canada and western europe. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. in addition, the company may have to adjust prices on many of its products and services to stay competitive and retain market share. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. the company&rsquo;s results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflation in the cost of raw materials, freight and energy. the company's products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, and copper. additionally, the company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to; plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. as described in more detail in item 7 hereto, the company has been negatively impacted by commodity and freight inflation in recent years and it expects energy and certain commodity prices, particularly non-ferrous metals, may increase. if the company is unable to mitigate these inflation increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. the company&rsquo;s failure to continue successfully managing, defending and accruing for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. as described in further detail in items 1 and 3 and note contingencies of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company becomes involved in various litigation 7 matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company&rsquo;s estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation which could negatively impact profitability. exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company, through its global operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company&rsquo;s predominant exposures are in european, canadian and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi (&lsquo;&lsquo;rmb&rsquo;&rsquo;). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates and income and expenses are translated using weighted average exchange rates. if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company&rsquo;s earnings could be negatively impacted. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. in addition, on july 21, 2005, china announced it will let the rmb fluctuate within a very tight band (+/- .3% around weighted average prior day close) thereby effectively adopting a managed float and ending its decade-old valuation de facto peg to the u.s. dollar. the company sources significant products from china and other asian low cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or these other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. while the present 3% appreciation of the rmb should not generate material cost increases for rmb denominated purchases, further appreciation of this or other currencies utilized for procurement could adversely affect profitability. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases. the company&rsquo;s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements or bilateral actions. in addition, the countries in which the company&rsquo;s products and materials are manufactured or imported from may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company's cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company&rsquo;s suppliers&rsquo; failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company&rsquo;s business. the company&rsquo;s operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company&rsquo;s business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets such as the u.s. or the european union. the company&rsquo;s ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid 8 disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s business and financial condition. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the company&rsquo;s acquisitions, it has $741 million of goodwill and $107 million of indefinite-lived tradenames recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at december 31, 2005. the company is required to periodically determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. if the company&rsquo;s investments in its pension plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating and other expenses. as described in further detail in note m employee benefit plans of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company sponsors pension and other post retirement benefit plans. the company&rsquo;s plan assets are invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company&rsquo;s funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to an under funded pension plan. the company expects to contribute approximately $15 million to its pension and other post retirement plans in 2006. there can be no assurance that the value of the plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make significant additional cash contributions to the plans which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, or that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company.risk factors the company&rsquo;s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled &lsquo;&lsquo;cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995&rsquo;&rsquo;, and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company&rsquo;s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company&rsquo;s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company&rsquo;s securities. large customer concentration and related customer inventory adjustments may negatively impact sales, results of operations and cash flows. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers such as the home depot, lowe&rsquo;s and wal-mart. the home depot individually accounted for 10% of the company&rsquo;s consolidated net sales from continuing operations for the year ended december 30, 2006. the loss or material reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the company&rsquo;s products related to, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s results of operations and cash flows. in addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by such customers can have a negative impact on sales. for example, severe inventory adjustments taken by certain large north american home center customers in december 2005 negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million versus normal levels. while the company did not experience a significant impact from such customer inventory adjustments in late 2006, they may re-occur in the future. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s business. a substantial portion of the company&rsquo;s products in the consumer products and industrial tools segments are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. the company&rsquo;s growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. the company&rsquo;s recent acquisitions may not further its strategies and the company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. in 2002, the company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby to reduce the risk associated with large customer concentrations. the strategy has been advanced over the last five years with the sales of the company&rsquo;s residential entry door and home d&eacute;cor businesses, and the acquisition of a number of companies, including hsm electronic protection services, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;hsm&rsquo;&rsquo;), facom s.a. (&lsquo;&lsquo;facom&rsquo;&rsquo;), national manufacturing co. (&lsquo;&lsquo;national&rsquo;&rsquo;), besco pneumatic corporation (&lsquo;&lsquo;besco&rsquo;&rsquo;), best lock corporation and its affiliates (&lsquo;&lsquo;best access&rsquo;&rsquo;), chicago steel tape co. and affiliates (&lsquo;&lsquo;cst/berger&rsquo;&rsquo;), blick plc (&lsquo;&lsquo;blick&rsquo;&rsquo;), frisco bay industries ltd (&lsquo;&lsquo;frisco bay&rsquo;&rsquo;), isr solutions, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;isr&rsquo;&rsquo;), security group, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;security group&rsquo;&rsquo;) and precision hardware, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;precision&rsquo;&rsquo;). 5 although the company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated and effectively implement the company&rsquo;s growth and repositioning strategy. if the company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new company as necessary to continue its growth and repositioning strategies. the company&rsquo;s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. the company has made a number of acquisitions in the past three years, including, but not limited to: hsm in january 2007, besco in july 2006, facom in january 2006, national in november 2005, precision in may 2005, security group in january 2005, isr in december 2004, frisco bay in march 2004, as well as cst/berger and blick in january 2004. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: &bull; the diversion of company management&rsquo;s attention and other resources, &bull; the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and &bull; the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. any intangible assets that the company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed. in addition, the success of the company&rsquo;s future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to: &bull; combine operations, &bull; integrate departments, systems and procedures, and &bull; obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company&rsquo;s existing businesses and harm its operational results. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of facom, national, besco, hsm and other acquisitions with its existing businesses and operations. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. the company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company&rsquo;s ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as more fully described in item 7 and note i long-term debt and financing arrangements of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company issued $450 million of enhanced trust preferred securities through its trust subsidiary in 2005, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisitions of facom and national. in addition, the company has a five year revolving credit agreement, enabling borrowings up to $550 million; this agreement includes provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in euros and pound sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions. on january 8, 2007 the company entered into a new $500 million 364-day bridge facility which was utilized to partially finance the $545 million hsm acquisition on january 16, 2007. the company intends to permanently refinance this bridge facility in 2007 with a combination of available cash, and the issuance of long-term debt and equity-linked securities. 6 the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company&rsquo;s current indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that include, among other things: &bull; a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; &bull; maintenance of specified financial ratios. failure to maintain such ratios could result in limiting further access to liquidity and requiring the company to pay all interest coupons on certain debt securities through the issuance of common stock before making further dividend payments on its common shares outstanding; &bull; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; and &bull; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement. future new instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company&rsquo;s brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact sales and brand reputation. the company&rsquo;s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized imitation of its products or unauthorized use of its trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company&rsquo;s products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, as well as divert management time and attention. there can be no assurance that the company&rsquo;s on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. in addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow the company to protect its proprietary rights to the same extent as it is able to in the united states. the company has trademark licensing programs and licensees may not comply with product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements. the company licenses certain of its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of various products. while it enters into comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, such licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. non-compliance could include marketing products under the company&rsquo;s brand names that do not meet its quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet the company&rsquo;s supplier code of conduct. these activities could harm brand equity, reputation and business. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company&rsquo;s ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company&rsquo;s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company&rsquo;s ability to implement its growth strategy. the company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company&rsquo;s products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, 7 taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the united states, canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer private label brands that compete with some of the company&rsquo;s product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. the stanley fulfillment system (&lsquo;&lsquo;sfs&rsquo;&rsquo;) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company&rsquo;s business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key businesses processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. the company&rsquo;s results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflation in the cost of raw materials, freight and energy. the company&rsquo;s products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin. additionally, the company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. as described in more detail in item 7 hereto, the company has been negatively impacted by commodity and freight inflation in recent years and it expects energy and certain commodity prices, particularly non-ferrous metals, to increase. if the company is unable to mitigate these inflation increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. ultimate income tax payments may differ from amounts currently recorded by the company. future tax law changes may materially increase the company&rsquo;s prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the united states as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company&rsquo;s worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company&rsquo;s income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company&rsquo;s worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. the company&rsquo;s failure to continue to successfully manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. as described in further detail in items 1 and 3 and note contingencies of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company&rsquo;s distributors, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully manage and 8 defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company&rsquo;s estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rate fluctuation which could negatively impact profitability. exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company, through its global operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company&rsquo;s predominant exposures are in european, canadian and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi (&lsquo;&lsquo;rmb&rsquo;&rsquo;). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company&rsquo;s earnings could be negatively impacted. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non u.s. dollar earnings. in addition, on july 21, 2005, china announced it will let the rmb fluctuate within a very tight band (+/&minus; .3% around weighted average prior day close) thereby effectively adopting a managed float and ending its decade-old valuation de facto peg to the u.s. dollar. the company sources significant products from china and other asian low cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or these other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. while the present 3% appreciation of the rmb should not generate material cost increases for rmb denominated purchases, further appreciation of this or other currencies utilized for procurement could adversely affect profitability. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases. the company&rsquo;s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements or bilateral actions. in addition, the countries in which the company&rsquo;s products and materials are manufactured or imported from may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company&rsquo;s cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company&rsquo;s suppliers&rsquo; failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company&rsquo;s business. the company&rsquo;s operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company&rsquo;s business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets such as the u.s. or the european union. the company&rsquo;s ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s business and financial condition. 9 if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived tradenames, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of acquisitions, the company has $1.1 billion of goodwill, $298 million of indefinite-lived tradenames, and $223 million of definite-lived intangible assets recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at december 30, 2006. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside the company&rsquo;s control, such as technological change, intensified competition or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived tradenames, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating and other expenses. certain u.s. employee benefit plan expense is affected by the market value of the company&rsquo;s common stock. as described in further detail in note m employee benefit plans of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company sponsors pension and other post retirement defined benefit plans, as well as an employee stock ownership plan (&lsquo;&lsquo;esop&rsquo;&rsquo;) under which the primary u.s. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. the company&rsquo;s defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money market instruments. the company&rsquo;s funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under funded pension plans. the company expects to contribute approximately $13 million to its pension and other post retirement defined benefit plans in 2007. there can be no assurance that the value of the plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make significant additional cash contributions to the plans which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, or that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company. overall esop expense is affected by the market value of stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other factors. net esop expense amounted to $2 million in each of the years 2006, 2005 and 2004. while the average market value of shares released increased from $43.20 in 2004 to $49.28 in 2006, other elements of esop expense, including a gradual reduction in the number of shares released annually from the trust, offset the favorable impact of the higher share price. esop expense could increase in the future if the market value of the company&rsquo;s common stock declines. the company provides a 5% guaranteed rate of return on participant contributions made to the tax deferred 401(k) savings plan prior to july 1998 when all contributions were invested in stanley common stock. the value of the shares purchased by participants prior to july 1998 along with the 5% cumulative guaranteed rate of return on stanley common stock is known as an investment protection account (&lsquo;&lsquo;ipa&rsquo;&rsquo;). beginning in july 1998 the investment options for plan participant contributions were enhanced to include a variety of investment funds in addition to the company&rsquo;s common stock, and there is no guaranteed rate of return to participants on any contributions made after that time. the ipa guarantee is included in the actuarial valuation of the ongoing u.s. pension plan. payments related to the ipa guarantees, if they have any value, would be made to participants over a period of many years generally as they retire. in the event the market value of stanley common stock declines below $43.59 (which is the stock price at which there was a settlement of this liability) additional costs may be triggered by the ipa benefit guarantee. 10risk factors the company&rsquo;s business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the 4 table of contents heading entitled &lsquo;&lsquo;cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995&rsquo;&rsquo;, and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company&rsquo;s business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company&rsquo;s securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company&rsquo;s securities. continued deterioration of the us housing and construction markets or downturns in these markets in europe or asia could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s business. approximately 24% of 2007 sales were in the americas region in the construction and do-it-yourself segment. this portion of the company&rsquo;s business has been adversely affected by the decline in the u.s. housing and general construction markets, though european and asian sales in this segment were robust in 2007. it is possible this softness in u.s markets will be prolonged and to the extent it persists there is likely to be an unfavorable impact on sales and earnings. further deterioration of these domestic housing and construction markets in the americas or downturns in these markets in europe and asia could reduce demand for company products and therefore have a material adverse effect on sales and earnings. in addition, in the event economic conditions worsen, it is possible certain customers&rsquo; credit-worthiness may decline resulting in increased write-offs of customer receivables. the company&rsquo;s growth and repositioning strategies include acquisitions. the company&rsquo;s recent acquisitions may not further its strategies and the company may not be able to identify suitable future acquisition candidates. in 2002, the company embarked on a growth strategy to shift its business portfolio toward favored growth markets through acquisitions and divestitures, and thereby reduce the risk associated with large customer concentrations. the strategy has been advanced over the last five years with the sales of the company&rsquo;s residential entry door and home d&eacute;cor businesses, and the acquisition of a number of companies, including hsm electronic protection services, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;hsm&rsquo;&rsquo;), facom s.a. (&lsquo;&lsquo;facom&rsquo;&rsquo;), national manufacturing co. (&lsquo;&lsquo;national&rsquo;&rsquo;), besco pneumatic corporation (&lsquo;&lsquo;besco&rsquo;&rsquo;), best lock corporation and its affiliates (&lsquo;&lsquo;best access&rsquo;&rsquo;), chicago steel tape co. and affiliates (&lsquo;&lsquo;cst/berger&rsquo;&rsquo;), blick plc (&lsquo;&lsquo;blick&rsquo;&rsquo;), frisco bay industries ltd (&lsquo;&lsquo;frisco bay&rsquo;&rsquo;), isr sol utions, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;isr&rsquo;&rsquo;), security group, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;security group&rsquo;&rsquo;) and precision hardware, inc. (&lsquo;&lsquo;precision&rsquo;&rsquo;). although the company has extensive experience with acquisitions, there can be no assurance that recently acquired companies will be successfully integrated and effectively implement the company&rsquo;s growth and repositioning strategy. if the company successfully integrates the acquired companies and effectively implements its repositioning strategy, there can be no assurance that its resulting business segments will enjoy continued market acceptance or profitability. in addition, there can be no assurance that the company will be able to successfully identify suitable future acquisition candidates, negotiate appropriate terms, obtain the necessary financing, complete the transactions or successfully integrate the new companies as necessary to continue its growth and repositioning strategies. the company&rsquo;s acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. the company has made a number of acquisitions in the past three years, including, but not limited to: innerspace in july 2007, hsm in january 2007, besco in july 2006, facom in january 2006, national in november 2005, precision in may 2005, and security group in january 2005. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: &bull; the diversion of company management&rsquo;s attention and other resources, &bull; the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and &bull; the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. any intangible assets that the company acquires may have a negative effect on its earnings and return on capital employed. in addition, the success of the company&rsquo;s future acquisitions will depend in part on its ability to: 5 table of contents &bull; combine operations, &bull; integrate departments, systems and procedures, and &bull; obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company&rsquo;s existing businesses and harm its operational results. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of facom, national, besco, hsm, innerspace and other acquisitions with its existing businesses and operations. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed, or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. the company may incur significant additional indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with future acquisitions which may restrict the manner in which it conducts business. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company&rsquo;s ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as more fully described in item 7 and note i long-term debt and financing arrangements of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company issued $450 million of enhanced trust preferred securities through its trust subsidiary in 2005, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisitions of facom and national. in march 2007, the company completed concurrent offerings of floating rate equity units and 5% senior notes due 2010, the net proceeds of which were used to finance a portion of the acquisition of hsm. in addition, the company has a five year revolving credit agreement, enabling borrowings up to $550 million; this agreement includes provisions that allow designated subsidiaries to borrow up to $250 million in euros and pounds sterling, which may be available to, among other things, fund acquisitions. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company&rsquo;s current indebtedness contain restrictive covenants that include, among other things: &bull; a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; &bull; maintenance of specified financial ratios. failure to maintain such ratios could result in limiting further access to liquidity and requiring the company to pay all interest coupons on certain debt securities through the issuance of common stock before making further dividend payments on its common shares outstanding; &bull; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; and &bull; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement. future new instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company&rsquo;s results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflation in the cost of raw materials, freight and energy. the company&rsquo;s products are manufactured of both ferrous and non-ferrous metals, including but not limited to steel, aluminum, zinc, brass, nickel and copper, as well as resin. additionally, the company uses other commodity based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to: plastics, wood, and other corrugated products. as described in more detail in item 7 hereto, the company has been negatively impacted by commodity and freight inflation in recent years and it expects energy and certain commodity prices, particularly non-ferrous metals, to increase. if the company is unable to mitigate these inflation increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. further tightening of credit markets could adversely affect the company by limiting the company&rsquo;s or its customers&rsquo; ability to borrow or otherwise obtain cash. the company&rsquo;s growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of 6 table of contents existing product lines. while the company has not encountered difficulties to date, the tightening of credit markets could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, a large portion of the company&rsquo;s products are sold to professionals in the commercial construction industry. to the extent a continued tightening of credit markets results in reduced commercial construction activity, there could be an adverse impact on sales. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. exposure to foreign currency risk results because the company, through its global operations, enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company&rsquo;s predominant exposures are in european, canadian and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi (&lsquo;&lsquo;rmb&rsquo;&rsquo;). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company&rsquo;s earnings could be negatively impacted. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in cost savings or that all market fluctuation exposure will be eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources significant products from china and other asian low cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or these other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. while the 7% appreciation of the rmb during 2007 has not as yet generated material cost increases for products sourced from china, further significant appreciation of the rmb or other currencies in countries where the company sources product could adversely impact profitability. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases. the company&rsquo;s business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, components and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases (e.g., anti-dumping tariffs), unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company&rsquo;s products and materials are manufactured or imported from may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company&rsquo;s cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company&rsquo;s suppliers&rsquo; failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company&rsquo;s business. the company&rsquo;s operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company&rsquo;s business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets such as the u.s. or the european union. the company&rsquo;s ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s business and financial condition. 7 table of contents large customer concentrations and related customer inventory adjustments may negatively impact sales, results of operations and cash flows. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers such as the home depot, lowe&rsquo;s and wal-mart, although no one customer represents more than 10% of consolidated net sales. the loss or material reduction of business from, or the lack of success of sales initiatives for the company&rsquo;s products related to, any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company&rsquo;s results of operations and cash flows. in addition, unanticipated inventory adjustments by such customers can have a negative impact on sales. for example, severe inventory adjustments taken by certain large north american home center customers in december 2005 negatively impacted sales by approximately $30 million versus normal levels. while the company did not experience such a significant impact from customer inventory adjustments in late 2006 or 2007, they may re-occur in the future. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s business. a substantial portion of the company&rsquo;s products in the cdiy and industrial segments are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company&rsquo;s business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived tradenames, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of acquisitions, the company has $1.5 billion of goodwill, $322 million of indefinite-lived tradenames, and $393 million of definite-lived intangible assets recorded on its consolidated balance sheet at december 29, 2007. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived tradenames have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside the company&rsquo;s control, such as technological change, intensified competition or other matters causing a decline in expected future cash flows. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived tr adenames, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. ultimate income tax payments may differ from amounts currently recorded by the company. future tax law changes may materially increase the company&rsquo;s prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the united states as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company&rsquo;s worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company&rsquo;s income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legisla tion may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company&rsquo;s worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write-down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company&rsquo;s failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. 8 table of contents as described in further detail in items 1 and 3 and note contingencies of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company&rsquo;s distributors, intellectual property claims, regulatory actions and environmental matters. there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company&rsquo;s estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company&rsquo;s brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators could negatively impact sales and brand reputation. the company&rsquo;s trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized imitation of its products or unauthorized use of its trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company&rsquo;s products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, as well as divert management time and attention. there can be no assurance that the company&rsquo;s on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights will prevent all violations. in addition, the laws and enforcement mechanisms of some foreign countries may not allow the company to protect its proprietary rights to the same extent as it is able to in the united states. the company has trademark licensing programs and licensees may not comply with product quality, manufacturing standards, marketing and other requirements. the company licenses certain of its trademarks to third parties for manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of various products. while it enters into comprehensive licensing agreements with its licensees covering product design, product quality, sourcing, manufacturing, marketing and other requirements, such licensees may not comply fully with those agreements. non-compliance could include marketing products under the company&rsquo;s brand names that do not meet its quality and other requirements or engaging in manufacturing practices that do not meet the company&rsquo;s supplier code of conduct. these activities could harm brand equity, reputation and business. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company&rsquo;s ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company&rsquo;s efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficient to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company&rsquo;s ability to implement its growth strategy. the company faces active competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company&rsquo;s products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the united states, canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer private label brands that compete with some of the company&rsquo;s product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new products and services, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. 9 table of contents the stanley fulfillment system (&lsquo;&lsquo;sfs&rsquo;&rsquo;) is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company&rsquo;s business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. the performance of the company&rsquo;s businesses may suffer if its computer systems are disrupted or cease to operate effectively, or if planned upgrades to computer systems are not implemented smoothly. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, the company&rsquo;s systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other matters, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as email, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. management believes it has effective disaster recovery plans and that it is unlikely there would be more than a short-lived disruption to its computer systems due to these physical concentrations of computer equipment, or from potential occurrences of damage and interruption. however, it is reasonably possible that results could be adversely impacted if equipment outages were prolonged due to an unusually serious event. in addition, the company is in the process of planning and implementing system conversions to sap version 6.0 (&lsquo;&ls quo;sap&rsquo;&rsquo;) to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. the implementations from legacy systems to sap will occur in carefully managed stages over a period of three years in the americas, and ultimately thereafter in europe and asia. management believes the planned system conversions are cost-beneficial and will further enhance productivity in its operations. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company&rsquo;s computer operations could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating and other expenses. certain u.s. employee benefit plan expense is affected by the market value of the company&rsquo;s common stock. as described in further detail in note m employee benefit plans of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company sponsors pension and other post retirement defined benefit plans, as well as an employee stock ownership plan (&lsquo;&lsquo;esop&rsquo;&rsquo;) under which the primary u.s. defined contribution and 401(k) plans are funded. the company&rsquo;s defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, bonds and other fixed income securities, and money market instruments. the company&rsquo;s funding policy is to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which 10 table of contents require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. the company expects to contribute approximately $15 million to its pension and other post retirement defined benefit plans in 2008. there can be no assurance that the value of the plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make significant additional cash contributions to the plans which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, or that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company. overall esop expense is affected by the market value of stanley stock on the monthly dates when shares are released, among other factors. net esop expense amounted to $2 million in each of the years 2007, 2006 and 2005. while the average market value of shares released increased from $46.41 in 2005 to $56.04 in 2007, other elements of esop expense, including a gradual reduction in the number of shares released annually from the trust, offset the favorable impact of the higher share price. esop expense could increase in the future if the market value of the company&rsquo;s common stock declines. the company provides a 5% guaranteed rate of return on participant contributions made to the tax deferred 401(k) savings plan prior to july 1998 when all contributions were invested in stanley common stock. the value of the shares purchased by participants prior to july 1998 along with the 5% cumulative guaranteed rate of return on stanley common stock is known as an investment protection account (&lsquo;&lsquo;ipa&rsquo;&rsquo;). beginning in july 1998, the investment options for plan participant contributions were enhanced to include a variety of investment funds in addition to the company&rsquo;s common stock, and there is no guaranteed rate of return to participants on any contributions made after that time. the ipa guarantee is included in the actuarial valuation of the ongoing u.s. pension plan. payments related to the ipa guarantees, if they have any value, would be made to participants over a period of many years generally as they retire. in the event the market value of stanley common stock declines below $43.59 (which is the stock price at which there was a settlement of this liability) additional costs may be triggered by the ipa benefit guarantee. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned &lsquo;&lsquo;market risk&rsquo;&rsquo; in item 7 and the material in note j financial instruments of the notes to consolidated financial statements inrisk factors 8 risk factors the company business, operations and financial condition are subject to various risks and uncertainties. you should carefully consider the risks and uncertainties described below, together with all of the other information in this annual report on form 10-k, including those risks set forth under the heading entitled "cautionary statements under the private securities litigation reform act of 1995", and in other documents that the company files with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, before making any investment decision with respect to its securities. if any of the risks or uncertainties actually occur or develop, the company business, financial condition, results of operations and future growth prospects could change. under these circumstances, the trading prices of the company securities could decline, and you could lose all or part of your investment in the company securities. changes in customer preferences, the inability to maintain mutually beneficial relationships with large customers, inventory reductions by customers, and the inability to penetrate new channels of distribution could adversely affect the company business. the company has certain significant customers, particularly home centers and major retailers, although no one customer represented more than 10% of consolidated net sales in 2011. however, the two largest customers comprised nearly 16% of net sales, with u.s. and international mass merchants and home centers collectively comprised approximately 23% of net sales. the loss or material reduction of business, the lack of success of sales initiatives, or changes in customer preferences or loyalties, for the company products related to any such significant customer could have a material adverse impact on the company results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the company major customers are volume purchasers, a few of which are much larger than the company and have strong bargaining power with suppliers. this limits the ability to recover cost increases through higher selling prices. furthermore, unanticipated inventory adjustments by these customers can have a negative impact on sales. if customers in our electronic security solutions business are dissatisfied with our services and switch to competitive services, or disconnect for other reasons, our attrition rates may increase. in periods of increasing attrition rates, recurring revenue and results of operations may be materially adversely affected. the risk is more pronounced in times of economic uncertainty, as customers may reduce amounts spent on the products and services we provide. in times of tough economic condition, the company has experienced significant distributor inventory corrections reflecting de-stocking of the supply chain associated with difficult credit markets. such distributor de-stocking exacerbated sales volume declines pertaining to weak end user demand and the broader economic recession. the company results may be adversely impacted in future periods by such customer inventory adjustments. further, the inability to continue to penetrate new channels of distribution may have a negative impact on the company future results. the company faces active global competition and if it does not compete effectively, its business may suffer. the company faces active competition and resulting pricing pressures. the company products compete on the basis of, among other things, its reputation for product quality, its well-known brands, price, innovation and customer service capabilities. the company competes with both larger and smaller companies that offer the same or similar products and services or that produce different products appropriate for the same uses. these companies are often located in countries such as china, taiwan and india where labor and other production costs are substantially lower than in the u.s., canada and western europe. also, certain large customers offer house brands that compete with some of the company product offerings as a lower-cost alternative. to remain profitable and defend market share, the company must maintain a competitive cost structure, develop new 8 products and services, lead product innovation, respond to competitor innovations and enhance its existing products in a timely manner. the company may not be able to compete effectively on all of these fronts and with all of its competitors, and the failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on its sales and profit margins. sfs is a continuous operational improvement process applied to many aspects of the company business such as procurement, quality in manufacturing, maximizing customer fill rates, integrating acquisitions and other key business processes. in the event the company is not successful in effectively applying the sfs disciplines to its key business processes, including those of acquired businesses, its ability to compete and future earnings could be adversely affected. in addition, the company may have to reduce prices on its products and services, or make other concessions, to stay competitive and retain market share. price reductions taken by the company in response to customer and competitive pressures, as well as price reductions and promotional actions taken to drive demand that may not result in anticipated sales levels, could also negatively impact its business. the company engages in restructuring actions, sometimes entailing shifts of production to low-cost countries, as part of its efforts to maintain a competitive cost structure. if the company does not execute restructuring actions well, its ability to meet customer demand may decline, or earnings may otherwise be adversely impacted; similarly if such efforts to reform the cost structure are delayed relative to competitors or other market factors the company may lose market share and profits. customer consolidation could have a material adverse effect on the company business. a significant portion of the company products are sold through home centers and mass merchant distribution channels in the u.s. and europe. a consolidation of retailers in both north america and abroad has occurred over time and the increasing size and importance of individual customers creates risk of exposure to potential volume loss. the loss of certain larger home centers as customers would have a material adverse effect on the company business until either such customers were replaced or the company made the necessary adjustments to compensate for the loss of business. low demand for new products and the inability to develop and introduce new products at favorable margins could adversely impact the company performance and prospects for future growth. the company competitive advantage is due in part to its ability to develop and introduce new products in a timely manner at favorable margins. the uncertainties associated with developing and introducing new products, such as market demand and costs of development and production may impede the successful development and introduction of new products on a consistent basis. introduction of new technology may result in higher costs to the company than that of the technology replaced. that increase in costs, which may continue indefinitely or until and if increased demand and greater availability in the sources of the new technology drive down its cost could adversely affect the company results of operations. market acceptance of the new products introduced in recent years and scheduled for introduction in 2012 may not meet sales expectations due to various factors, such as the failure to accurately predict market demand, end-user preferences, and evolving industry standards. moreover, the ultimate success and profitability of the new products may depend on the company ability to resolve technical and technological challenges in a timely and cost-effective manner, and to achieve manufacturing efficiencies. the company investments in productive capacity and commitments to fund advertising and product promotions in connection with these new products could erode profits if those expectations are not met. 9 the company brands are important assets of its businesses and violation of its trademark rights by imitators, or the failure of its licensees or vendors to comply with the company product quality, manufacturing requirements, marketing standards, and other requirements could negatively impact revenues and brand reputation. the company trademarks enjoy a reputation for quality and value and are important to its success and competitive position. unauthorized use of the company trademark rights may not only erode sales of the company products, but may also cause significant damage to its brand name and reputation, interfere with its ability to effectively represent the company to its customers, contractors, suppliers, and/or licensees, and increase litigation costs. similarly, failure by licensees or vendors to adhere to the company standards of quality and other contractual requirements could result in loss of revenue, increased litigation, and/or damage to the company reputation and business. there can be no assurance that the company on-going effort to protect its brand and trademark rights and ensure compliance with its licensing and vendor agreements will prevent all violations. successful sales and marketing efforts depend on the company ability to recruit and retain qualified employees. the success of the company efforts to grow its business depends on the contributions and abilities of key executives, its sales force and other personnel, including the ability of its sales force to adapt to any changes made in the sales organization and achieve adequate customer coverage. the company must therefore continue to recruit, retain and motivate management, sales and other personnel sufficiently to maintain its current business and support its projected growth. a shortage of these key employees might jeopardize the company ability to implement its growth strategy. we have significant operations outside of the united states, which are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating outside of the united states. we generate revenue outside of the united states and expect it to continue to represent a significant portion of our total revenue. business operations outside of the united states are subject to political, economic and other risks inherent in operating in certain countries, such as: the difficulty of enforcing agreements and protecting assets through legal systems outside the u.s.; managing widespread operations and enforcing internal policies and procedures such as compliance with u.s. and foreign anti-bribery and anti-corruption regulations; trade protection measures and import or export licensing requirements; the application of certain labor regulations outside of the united states; compliance with a wide variety of non-u.s. laws and regulations; changes in the general political and economic conditions in the countries where we operate, particularly in emerging markets; the threat of nationalization and expropriation; increased costs and risks of doing business in a wide variety of jurisdictions; and limitations on repatriation of earnings; changes in the political or economic environments in the countries in which we operate could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. 10 the company business is subject to risks associated with sourcing and manufacturing overseas. the company imports large quantities of finished goods, component parts and raw materials. substantially all of its import operations are subject to customs requirements and to tariffs and quotas set by governments through mutual agreements, bilateral actions or, in some cases unilateral action. in addition, the countries in which the company products and materials are manufactured or imported may from time to time impose additional quotas, duties, tariffs or other restrictions on its imports (including restrictions on manufacturing operations) or adversely modify existing restrictions. imports are also subject to unpredictable foreign currency variation which may increase the company cost of goods sold. adverse changes in these import costs and restrictions, or the company suppliers failure to comply with customs regulations or similar laws, could harm the company business. the company operations are also subject to the effects of international trade agreements and regulations such as the north american free trade agreement, and the activities and regulations of the world trade organization. although these trade agreements generally have positive effects on trade liberalization, sourcing flexibility and cost of goods by reducing or eliminating the duties and/or quotas assessed on products manufactured in a particular country, trade agreements can also impose requirements that adversely affect the company business, such as setting quotas on products that may be imported from a particular country into key markets including the u.s. or the european union, or making it easier for other companies to compete, by eliminating restrictions on products from countries where the company competitors source products. the company ability to import products in a timely and cost-effective manner may also be affected by conditions at ports or issues that otherwise affect transportation and warehousing providers, such as port and shipping capacity, labor disputes, severe weather or increased homeland security requirements in the u.s. and other countries. these issues could delay importation of products or require the company to locate alternative ports or warehousing providers to avoid disruption to customers. these alternatives may not be available on short notice or could result in higher transit costs, which could have an adverse impact on the company business and financial condition. the company success depends on its ability to improve productivity and streamline operations to control or reduce costs. the company is committed to continuous productivity improvement and evaluating opportunities to reduce fixed costs, simplify or improve processes, and eliminate excess capacity. the company has undertaken restructuring actions, the savings of which may be mitigated by many factors, including economic weakness, competitive pressures, and decisions to increase costs in areas such as sales promotion or research and development above levels that were otherwise assumed. failure to achieve or delays in achieving projected levels of efficiencies and cost savings from such measures, or unanticipated inefficiencies resulting from manufacturing and administrative reorganization actions in progress or contemplated, would adversely affect the company results. the performance of the company may suffer from business disruptions associated with information technology, system implementations, or catastrophic losses affecting distribution centers and other infrastructure. the company relies heavily on computer systems to manage and operate its businesses, and record and process transactions. computer systems are important to production planning, customer service and order fulfillment among other business-critical processes. consistent and efficient operation of the computer hardware and software systems is imperative to the successful sales and earnings performance of the various businesses in many countries. despite efforts to prevent such situations, insurance policies and loss control and risk management practices that partially mitigate these risks, the company systems may be affected by damage or interruption from, among other causes, power outages, computer viruses, or security breaches. computer hardware and storage equipment that is integral to efficient operations, such as e-mail, telephone and other functionality, is concentrated in certain physical locations in the various continents in which the company operates. 11 in addition, the company is in the process of system conversions to sap as well as other applications to provide a common platform across most of its businesses. there can be no assurances that expected expense synergies will be achieved or that there will not be delays to the expected timing of such synergies. it is possible the costs to complete the system conversions may exceed current expectations, and that significant costs may be incurred that will require immediate expense recognition as opposed to capitalization. the risk of disruption to key operations is increased when complex system changes such as the sap conversions are undertaken. if systems fail to function effectively, or become damaged, operational delays may ensue and the company may be forced to make significant expenditures to remedy such issues. any significant disruption in the company computer operations could have a material adverse impact on its business and results. the company operations are significantly dependent on infrastructure, notably certain distribution centers and security alarm monitoring facilities, which are concentrated in various geographic locations. if any of these were to experience a catastrophic loss, such as a fire, earthquake, hurricane, or flood, it could disrupt operations, delay production, shipments and revenue and result in large expenses to repair or replace the facility. the company maintains business interruption insurance, but it may not fully protect the company against all adverse effects that could result from significant disruptions. unforeseen events, including war, terrorism and other international conflicts and public health issues, whether occurring in the united states or abroad, could disrupt our operations, disrupt the operations of our suppliers or customers, or result in political or economic instability. these events could reduce demand for our products and make it difficult or impossible for us to manufacture our products, deliver products to customers, or to receive materials from suppliers. the company results of operations could be negatively impacted by inflationary or deflationary economic conditions which could affect the ability to obtain raw materials, component parts, freight, energy, labor and sourced finished goods in a timely and cost-effective manner. the company products are manufactured using both ferrous and non-ferrous metals including, but not limited to, steel, zinc, copper, brass, aluminum, nickel and resin. additionally, the company uses other commodity-based materials for components and packaging including, but not limited to, plastics, wood and other corrugated products. the company cost base also reflects significant elements for freight, energy and labor. the company also sources certain finished goods directly from vendors. if the company is unable to mitigate any inflationary increases through various customer pricing actions and cost reduction initiatives, its profitability may be adversely affected. conversely, in the event there is deflation, the company may experience pressure from its customers to reduce prices; there can be no assurance that the company would be able to reduce its cost base (through negotiations with suppliers or other measures) to offset any such price concessions which could adversely impact results of operations and cash flows. further, as a result of inflationary or deflationary economic conditions, the company believes it is possible that a limited number of suppliers may either cease operations or require additional financial assistance from the company in order to fulfill their obligations. in a limited number of circumstances, the magnitude of the company purchases of certain items is of such significance that a change in established supply relationships with suppliers or increase in the costs of purchased raw materials, component parts or finished goods could result in manufacturing interruptions, delays, inefficiencies or an inability to market products. changes in value-added tax rebates currently available to the company or to its suppliers could also increase the costs of the company manufactured products as well as purchased products and components and could adversely affect the company results. 12 uncertainty about the financial stability of several countries in the european union (eu), the increasing risk that those countries may default on their sovereign debt and related stresses on the european economy could have a significant adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. in 2010, a financial crisis emerged in europe, triggered by high budget deficits and rising direct and contingent sovereign debt in greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain, which created concerns about the ability of these eu peripheral nations to continue to service their sovereign debt obligations. these conditions impacted financial markets and resulted in high and volatile bond yields on the sovereign debt of many eu nations. certain european nations continue to experience varying degrees of financial stress, and yields on government-issued bonds in greece, ireland, italy, portugal and spain have risen and remain volatile. despite assistance packages to greece, ireland and portugal, the creation of a joint eu-imf european financial stability facility in may 2010, and a recently announced plan to expand financial assistance to greece, uncertainty over the outcome of the eu governments financial support programs and worries about sovereign finances persist. market concerns over the direct and indirect exposure of european banks and insurers to the eu peripheral nations has resulted in a widening of credit spreads and increased costs of funding for some european financial institutions. risks and ongoing concerns about the debt crisis in europe could have a detrimental impact on the global economic recovery, sovereign and non-sovereign debt in these countries and the financial condition of european financial institutions. market and economic disruptions have affected, and may continue to affect, consumer confidence levels and spending, personal bankruptcy rates, levels of incurrence and default on consumer debt and home prices, among other factors. there can be no assurance that the market disruptions in europe, including the increased cost of funding for certain governments and financial institutions, will not spread, nor can there be any assurance that future assistance packages will be available or, even if provided, will be sufficient to stabilize the affected countries and markets in europe or elsewhere. to the extent uncertainty regarding the economic recovery continues to negatively impact consumer confidence and consumer credit factors, our business and results of operations could be significantly and adversely affected. the company generates approximately 28% of its revenues from europe (which increases to 31% on a pro-forma basis with the full year impact of the niscayah acquisition). each of the company segments generate sales from the european marketplace, with the sales activity being somewhat concentrated within france, the nordic region, germany and the uk. while the company believes any downturn in the european marketplace would be offset to some degree by sales growth in emerging markets and stability in north america, the company future growth, profitability and financial liquidity could be affected, in several ways, including but not limited to the following: depressed consumer and business confidence may decrease demand for our products and services; our customers may implement cost-reduction initiatives or delay purchases to address inventory levels; significant declines of foreign currency values in countries where the company operates could impact both the revenue growth and overall profitability in those geographies; a devaluation of or a break-up of the euro could have an effect on the credit worthiness (as well as the availability of funds) of customers impacting the collectability of receivables; a devaluation of or break of the euro could have an adverse effect on the value of financial assets of the company in the effected countries; a slowdown in global merger and acquisition activity could limit the company from expanding through acquisition; 13 the impact of an event (individual country default or break up of the euro) could have an adverse impact on the global credit markets and global liquidity potentially impacting the company ability to access the credit markets and to raise capital. the company is exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates which could negatively impact profitability. the company manufactures and sells its products in many countries throughout the world. as a result, there is exposure to foreign currency risk as the company enters into transactions and makes investments denominated in multiple currencies. the company predominant exposures are in european, canadian, british and asian currencies, including the chinese renminbi ("rmb"). in preparing its financial statements, for foreign operations with functional currencies other than the u.s. dollar, asset and liability accounts are translated at current exchange rates, and income and expenses are translated using weighted-average exchange rates. with respect to the effects on translated earnings, if the u.s. dollar strengthens relative to local currencies, the company earnings could be negatively impacted. in 2011, foreign currency translation positively impacted revenues by approximately $200 million and diluted earnings per share by approximately $0.17. the translation impact will vary over time and may be more material in the future. although the company utilizes risk management tools, including hedging, as it deems appropriate, to mitigate a portion of potential market fluctuations in foreign currencies, there can be no assurance that such measures will result in all market fluctuation exposure being eliminated. the company does not make a practice of hedging its non-u.s. dollar earnings. the company sources many products from china and other asian low-cost countries for resale in other regions. to the extent the rmb or other currencies appreciate with respect to the u.s. dollar, the company may experience cost increases on such purchases. the company may not be successful at implementing customer pricing or other actions in an effort to mitigate the related cost increases and thus its profitability may be adversely impacted. the company has incurred, and may incur in the future, significant indebtedness, or issue additional equity securities, in connection with mergers or acquisitions which may impact the manner in which it conducts business or the company access to external sources of liquidity. the potential issuance of such securities may limit the company ability to implement elements of its growth strategy and may have a dilutive effect on earnings. as described in note h, long-term debt and financing arrangements, of the notes to the consolidated financial statements in item 8, the company has a committed revolving credit agreement expiring in march 2015 supporting borrowings up to $1.2 billion. further, in connection with the niscayah acquisition, the company entered into a revolving credit agreement in july 2011 that will expire in july 2012. this facility had $750 million capacity at december 2011. no amounts were outstanding against either facility at december 31, 2011. the instruments and agreements governing certain of the company current indebtedness contain requirements or restrictive covenants that include, among other things: a limitation on creating liens on certain property of the company and its subsidiaries; a restriction on entering into certain sale-leaseback transactions; customary events of default. if an event of default occurs and is continuing, the company might be required to repay all amounts outstanding under the respective instrument or agreement; and 14 maintenance of a specified financial ratio. the company has an interest coverage covenant that must be maintained to permit continued access to its committed revolving credit facilities. the interest coverage ratio tested for covenant compliance compares adjusted earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization to adjusted interest expense ( adjusted ebitda / adjusted interest expense ); such adjustments to interest or ebitda include, but are not limited to, removal of non-cash interest expense, certain restructuring and other merger and acquisition-related charges as well as stock-based compensation expense. the ratio required for compliance is 3.5 ebitda to 1.0 interest expense and is computed quarterly, on a rolling twelve months (last twelve months) basis. under this covenant definition, the interest coverage ratio was approximately 14 times ebitda or higher in each of the 2011 quarterly measurement periods. management does not believe it is reasonably likely the company will breach this covenant. failure to maintain this ratio could adversely affect further access to liquidity. future instruments and agreements governing indebtedness may impose other restrictive conditions or covenants. such covenants could restrict the company in the manner in which it conducts business and operations as well as in the pursuit of its growth and repositioning strategies. the company is exposed to counterparty risk in its hedging arrangements. from time to time the company enters into arrangements with financial institutions to hedge exposure to fluctuations in currency and interest rates, including forward contracts, options and swap agreements. the failure of one or more counterparties to the company hedging arrangements to fulfill their obligations could adversely affect the company results of operations. tight capital and credit markets or the failure to maintain credit ratings could adversely affect the company by limiting the company ability to borrow or otherwise access liquidity. the company growth plans are dependent on, among other things, the availability of funding to support corporate initiatives and complete appropriate acquisitions and the ability to increase sales of existing product lines. while the company has not encountered financing difficulties to date, the capital and credit markets experienced extreme volatility and disruption in recent years. market conditions could make it more difficult for the company to borrow or otherwise obtain the cash required for significant new corporate initiatives and acquisitions. in addition, there could be a number of follow-on effects from such a credit crisis on the company businesses, including insolvency of key suppliers resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of the company products and services and/or customer insolvencies. in addition, the major rating agencies regularly evaluate the company for purposes of assigning credit ratings. the company ability to access the credit markets, and the cost of these borrowings, is affected by the strength of its credit ratings and current market conditions. failure to maintain credit ratings that are acceptable to investors may adversely affect the cost and other terms upon which the company is able to obtain financing, as well as access to the capital markets. the failure to successfully continue to integrate the businesses of stanley and black &amp; decker in the expected time frame could adversely affect the company future results. the success of the merger continues to depend, in large part, on the ability of the company to realize the anticipated benefits, including cost savings, from combining the businesses of stanley and black &amp; decker. to realize these anticipated benefits, the businesses of stanley and black &amp; decker must be successfully integrated. this integration is complex and time-consuming. the failure to integrate successfully and to successfully manage the challenges presented by the integration process may result in the combined company not achieving the anticipated benefits of the merger. 15 potential difficulties that may be encountered in the integration process include the following: the inability to continue successfully integrating the businesses of stanley and black &amp; decker in a manner that permits the combined company to achieve the cost savings anticipated to result from the merger; the inability to implement information technology system changes to get the combined businesses on common platforms; complexities associated with managing the larger, more complex, combined business; performance shortfalls as a result of the diversion of management attention caused by the continued integration of the companies operations. additionally, the company has incurred, and will continue to incur substantial integration-related expenses resulting from the merger and other acquisitions. the company anticipates incurring $242 million of such charges in 2012. while management believes this estimate is reasonable, the amount of future integration expense is not certain and could result in the company taking significant additional charges against earnings in future periods. the company acquisitions may result in certain risks for its business and operations. in 2011, the company completed the acquisition of niscayah and nine smaller acquisitions. in 2010, along with the merger, the company completed the acquisition of crc-evans, as well as nine smaller acquisitions. prior to 2010, the company completed a number of acquisitions, including, but not limited to, gdp, sonitrol and xmark in 2008. the company may make additional acquisitions in the future. acquisitions involve a number of risks, including: the possibility that the acquired companies will not be successfully integrated or that anticipated cost savings, synergies, or other benefits will not be realized, the acquired businesses will lose market acceptance or profitability, the diversion of company management attention and other resources, the incurrence of unexpected liabilities, and the loss of key personnel and clients or customers of acquired companies. in addition, the success of the company growth and repositioning strategy will depend in part on its ability to: identify suitable future acquisition candidates, obtain the necessary financing, combine operations, 16 integrate departments, systems and procedures, and obtain cost savings and other efficiencies from the acquisitions. failure to effectively consummate or manage future acquisitions may adversely affect the company existing businesses and harm its operational results due to large write-offs, contingent liabilities, substantial depreciation, adverse tax or other consequences. the company is still in the process of integrating the businesses and operations of niscayah, crc-evans and certain other smaller acquisitions. the company cannot ensure that such integrations will be successfully completed or that all of the planned synergies will be realized. income tax payments may ultimately differ from amounts currently recorded by the company. future tax law changes may materially increase the company prospective income tax expense. the company is subject to income taxation in the u.s. as well as numerous foreign jurisdictions. judgment is required in determining the company worldwide income tax provision and accordingly there are many transactions and computations for which the final income tax determination is uncertain. the company is routinely audited by income tax authorities in many tax jurisdictions. although management believes the recorded tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome from any audit (or related litigation) could be materially different from amounts reflected in the company income tax provisions and accruals. future settlements of income tax audits may have a material effect on earnings between the period of initial recognition of tax estimates in the financial statements and the point of ultimate tax audit settlement. additionally, it is possible that future income tax legislation may be enacted that could have a material impact on the company worldwide income tax provision beginning with the period that such legislation becomes effective. also, while a reduction in statutory rates would result in a favorable impact on future net earnings, it would require an initial write down of any deferred tax assets in the related jurisdiction. the company failure to continue to successfully avoid, manage, defend, litigate and accrue for claims and litigation could negatively impact its results of operations or cash flows. the company is exposed to and becomes involved in various litigation matters arising out of the ordinary routine conduct of its business, including, from time to time, actual or threatened litigation relating to such items as commercial transactions, product liability, workers compensation, the company distributors and franchisees, intellectual property claims and regulatory actions. in addition, the company is subject to environmental laws in each jurisdiction in which business is conducted. some of the company products incorporate substances that are regulated in some jurisdictions in which it conducts manufacturing operations. the company could be subject to liability if it does not comply with these regulations. in addition, the company is currently, and may in the future, be held responsible for remedial investigations and clean-up costs resulting from the discharge of hazardous substances into the environment, including sites that have never been owned or operated by the company but at which it has been identified as a potentially responsible party under federal and state environmental laws and regulations. changes in environmental and other laws and regulations in both domestic and foreign jurisdictions could adversely affect the company operations due to increased costs of compliance and potential liability for non-compliance. the company manufactures products, configures and installs security systems and performs various services that create exposure to product and professional liability claims and litigation. if such products, systems and services are not properly manufactured, configured, installed, designed or delivered, personal injuries, property damage or business interruption could result, which could subject the company to claims for damages. the costs associated with defending product liability claims and payment of damages could be substantial. the company reputation could also be adversely affected by such claims, whether or not successful. 17 there can be no assurance that the company will be able to continue to successfully avoid, manage and defend such matters. in addition, given the inherent uncertainties in evaluating certain exposures, actual costs to be incurred in future periods may vary from the company estimates for such contingent liabilities. the company products could be recalled. the consumer product safety commission or other applicable regulatory bodies may require the recall, repair or replacement of the company products if those products are found not to be in compliance with applicable standards or regulations. a recall could increase costs and adversely impact the company reputation. the company is exposed to credit risk on its accounts receivable. the company outstanding trade receivables are not generally covered by collateral or credit insurance. while the company has procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on its trade and non-trade receivables, there can be no assurance such procedures will effectively limit its credit risk and avoid losses, which could have an adverse affect on the company financial condition and operating results. if the company were required to write down all or part of its goodwill, indefinite-lived trade names, or other definite-lived intangible assets, its net income and net worth could be materially adversely affected. as a result of the merger and other acquisitions, the company has $6.9 billion of goodwill, $1.6 billion of indefinite-lived trade names and $1.5 billion of definite-lived intangible assets at december 31, 2011. the company is required to periodically, at least annually, determine if its goodwill or indefinite-lived trade names have become impaired, in which case it would write down the impaired portion of the intangible asset. the definite-lived intangible assets, including customer relationships, are amortized over their estimated useful lives; such assets are also evaluated for impairment when appropriate. impairment of intangible assets may be triggered by developments outside of the company control, such as worsening economic conditions, technological change, intensified competition or other factors resulting in deleterious consequences. if the investments in employee benefit plans do not perform as expected, the company may have to contribute additional amounts to these plans, which would otherwise be available to cover operating expenses or other business purposes. the company sponsors pension and other post-retirement defined benefit plans. the company defined benefit plan assets are currently invested in equity securities, government and corporate bonds and other fixed income securities, money market instruments and insurance contracts. the company funding policy is generally to contribute amounts determined annually on an actuarial basis to provide for current and future benefits in accordance with applicable law which require, among other things, that the company make cash contributions to under-funded pension plans. during 2011, the company made cash contributions to its defined benefit plans of $131 million and it expects to contribute $110 million to its defined benefit plans in 2012. there can be no assurance that the value of the defined benefit plan assets, or the investment returns on those plan assets, will be sufficient in the future. it is therefore possible that the company may be required to make higher cash contributions to the plans in future years which would reduce the cash available for other business purposes, and that the company will have to recognize a significant pension liability adjustment which would decrease the net assets of the company and result in higher expense in future years. the fair value of these assets at december 31, 2011 was $1.789 billion. 18 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 51 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the company incorporates by reference the material captioned market risk in item 7 and in note i, derivative financial instruments, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in