risk factors 9 risk factors nisource inc. there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding, in part, as a result of the acquisitions of columbia and bay state. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,787.4 million outstanding as of december 31, 2009. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependant upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact nisource liquidity. on december 15, 2009, fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at bbb-, and the existing ratings of all other rated subsidiaries. fitch outlook for nisource and all of its rated subsidiaries is stable. on november 24, 2009, moody investors service affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at baa3, and the existing ratings of all other rated subsidiaries, and revised the outlook to stable from negative. on march 5, 2009, standard and poor affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its rated subsidiaries at bbb-, and revised the outlook to stable from negative. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by standard and poor s, moody or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard and poor or baa3 by moody s. the additional collateral that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $24 million. in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. in addition, under northern indiana trade receivables sales program, it is an event of termination if northern indiana debt rating is withdrawn by either standard and poor or moody or falls below bb, or ba2 at either standard and poor or moody s, respectively. likewise, under columbia of ohio trade receivables sales program, it is an event of termination if nisource debt rating is withdrawn by either standard and poor or moody or falls below bb- or ba3 at either standard and poor or moody s, respectively. additionally, as a result of nisource participation in certain derivative activities, a credit downgrade could cause nisource to be required to post substantial collateral in support of past and current operations. these collateral requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on nisource liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows. lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company long-term business strategy. 9 item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. nisource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned. because of changes in the business environment and business strategy, nisource may not be able to execute its four-part business plan as intended. our commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than our plan has anticipated; and the actual results of our financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management could deviate materially from planned outcomes. continued adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. the credit markets and the general economy have been experiencing a period of large-scale turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states federal government. while the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have an adverse material effect on nisource. a continued decline in the economy impacting nisource operating jurisdictions could adversely affect nisource ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. the current economic downturn and tightening of access to credit markets, coupled with nisource current credit ratings, could impact nisource ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost. refer to note 16, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource results of operations and financial position. nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. in september 2004, the epa issued an nov to northern indiana alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the caa. an adverse 10 item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the epa requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial penalties. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. the cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. because nisource operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource attempts to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. future legislative and regulatory programs could significantly restrict emissions of ghgs or could impose a cost or tax on ghg emissions. recently, proposals have been developed to implement state and regional ghg programs, to create federal legislation to limit ghg emissions (such as the waxman-markey bill, which passed the u.s. house of representatives, and the kerry-boxer draft bill which is currently being debated in the u.s. senate), and to create national renewable portfolio standards. in addition, in december 2009, the epa declared carbon dioxide and several other ghg to be a danger to public health and welfare, which is the first step towards the epa regulating ghg under the caa. imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on ghg emissions could increase nisource cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or nisource profitability. compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect nisource cash flow. the cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. the federal government continues to show interest in developing regulations covering coal combustion byproducts. legislation regulating coal ash pursuant to the surface mining control and reclamation act has been introduced and the epa is reviewing its previous determination that federal regulation of coal ash as a rcra subtitle c hazardous waste is not appropriate. the epa intends to propose regulation of coal combustion byproducts in early 2010. these proposed regulations could affect northern indiana ongoing byproduct reuse programs and could impose additional requirements on its management of coal ash wastes. northern indiana will monitor developments in this matter and cannot estimate the potential financial impact at this time. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource financial results. nisource business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where we operate. in particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. the majority of nisource net revenues is subject to economic regulation and is exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. 11 item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. virtually all of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource financial results are dependent on more frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. for example, the outcome of the currently pending electric rate case, and the electric and gas rate cases anticipated to be filed in 2010, could have a material effect on nisource financial results. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain of the markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource growth strategy and cash flows. fluctuations in the price or supply of fuel commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on our financial results. much of the electric generating fleet is dependent on coal. as a result, nisource profitable operation of these assets is vulnerable to price fluctuations, fuel supply disruptions and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. continuing access to natural gas supplies is also critical to serve utility gas customers. hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to commodity costs, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates. additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on nisource. nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill would also be tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include, reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under the five-year revolving credit facility. this covenant requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in the 2005 private placement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. changes in taxation and our ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments, which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize tax 12 item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource financial results. future changes in accounting rules, such as ifrs, and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results. aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations, which could negatively impact our financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in them being more costly to maintain and susceptible to unscheduled outages in spite of diligent efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure of such assets could result in increased expenses which may not be fully recoverable from customers and/or a reduction in revenue. climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect nisource results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 70 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk nisource inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 70risk factors 9 risk factors nisource inc. there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $7,352.8 million outstanding as of december 31, 2010. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact nisource liquidity. on december 14, 2010, fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at bbb-, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. fitch outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on november 19, 2010, moody investors service affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. moody outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on february 24, 2011, standard poor affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its subsidiaries at bbb-. standard poor outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by standard poor s, moody or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard poor or baa3 by moody s. the additional collateral that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $18.1 million. in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. in addition, under northern indiana trade receivables sales program, an event of termination occurs if northern indiana debt rating is withdrawn by either standard poor or moody s, or falls below bb or ba2 at either standard poor or moody s, respectively. likewise, under columbia of ohio and columbia of pennsylvania trade receivables sales programs, an event of termination occurs if nisource debt rating is withdrawn by either standard poor or moody s, or falls below bb- or ba3 at either standard poor or moody s, respectively. additionally, as a result of nisource participation in certain derivative activities, a credit downgrade could cause nisource to be required to post substantial collateral in support of past and current transactions. these collateral requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on nisource liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash 9 item 1a. risk factors nisource inc. flows. lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company long-term business strategy. nisource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned. because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, nisource may not be able to execute its four-part business plan as intended. nisource commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; and the actual results of nisource financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management could deviate materially from planned outcomes. adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, nisource cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained. continued sluggishness in the economy impacting nisource operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. the slow rate of the current economic recovery and tightened credit markets, coupled with nisource credit ratings, could impact nisource ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost. refer to note 16, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource net revenues is subject to economic regulation and is exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. virtually all of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource financial results are dependent on more frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. for example, the outcome of the currently pending 2010 electric rate case could have a material effect on nisource financial results. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain of the markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource growth strategy and cash flows. nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. 10 item 1a. risk factors nisource inc. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource facilities. because nisource operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource attempts to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. the current administration has made it clear that they are focused on reducing ghg emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on ghg emissions could increase nisource cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or nisource profitability. compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect nisource cash flow. the cost impact of any new or amended ghg legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery from customers. changes in costs could affect nisource financial position and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource financial results. nisource business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. 11 item 1a. risk factors nisource inc. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource financial results. nisource electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on nisource. nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill would also be tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include, reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under the five-year revolving credit facility. this covenant requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in the 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. 12 item 1a. risk factors nisource inc. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource financial results. future changes in accounting rules, such as ifrs, and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results. transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. our gas distribution and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of our operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to us. in accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact nisource financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a higher level of maintenance costs and may be susceptible to unscheduled outages despite diligent efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in nisource inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and could result in increased expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers. climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect nisource results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. growing nisource business by constructing new pipelines and other facilities subjects nisource to construction risks and natural gas supply risks. nisource gas transmission storage operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven growth projects across its system, primarily surrounding the marcellus shale production area in the states of pennsylvania and west virginia. these growth projects may include constructing or purchasing pipelines and treatment and processing facilities, which subjects nisource to construction risks and risks that gas supplies will not be available. if nisource undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. nisource may construct or purchase these projects to capture anticipated future growth in production in the region, which may not materialize, and the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and nisource will not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the project. nisource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. although nisource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. the company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether. 13 item 1a. risk factors nisource inc. growing competition in the gas transportation industry could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts. as a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and the shift in natural gas production areas, end users and ldcs may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with nisource customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. the inability of nisource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk nisource inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 62risk factors 10 risk factors nisource inc. there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results and financial condition. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding as a result of the acquisition of columbia. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of approximately $6,610 million outstanding as of december 31, 2005. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; and increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. compliance with these legal requirements requires nisource to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or causes harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. in september 2004, the epa issued an nov to northern indiana alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. an adverse outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the epa requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial penalties. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. the cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, the price of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased energy costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. nisource electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. electric operations in northern indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by events in the steel and steel related industries. in particular, sales to large industrial customers in these industries have been impacted by economic downturns generally, and may be affected by consolidation and globalization within such industries. the majority of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. virtually all of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. two nisource companies are currently obligated to participate in rate reviews, which determine the energy rates charged to customers, and directly impacts revenues. as part of a settlement reached in other regulatory proceedings, northern indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case with the iurc on or before july 1, 2008. the outcome for the rate case could have a material effect on nisource financial results. also, columbia of virginia has been directed to file schedules normally associated with a rate case by may 1, 2006, as part of the vscc investigation into the justness and reasonableness of columbia of virginia rates. certain events that are beyond nisource control have increased the level of public and regulatory scrutiny of the industry. regulatory authorities , governmental and market reactions to these events may have negative impacts on nisource business, financial condition and access to capital. as a result of the energy crisis in california during the summer of 2001, the recent volatility of natural gas prices in north america, the bankruptcy filing by enron corporation, the blackout in the northeast in 2003, accounting irregularities at public companies in general and energy companies in particular, and investigations by governmental authorities into energy trading activities, companies in the regulated and unregulated utility business have been under a generally increased amount of public and regulatory scrutiny and suspicion. all of the above-mentioned factors have caused regulators and legislators to review current regulatory practices, operating practices and accounting practices. the capital markets and ratings agencies also have increased their level of scrutiny. nisource believes that it is complying with all applicable laws and accounting standards, but it is difficult or impossible to predict or control what effect these types of events may have on the business, financial condition or access to the capital markets. nisource recent outsourcing initiative and service agreement with ibm may not achieve the level of savings that was originally anticipated. additionally, many associated changes in systems and personnel are being made, increasing operational and control risk during transition, which may have an impact on the business and its financial condition. nisource expects the 10-year agreement with ibm to deliver upwards of $530 million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. this cost savings is dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially less than expected. many functions are being transitioned to ibm and many new personnel are assuming responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on nisource and its financial condition. additionally, new information technology systems and process changes are also being put into place increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on nisource and its financial condition. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. nisource whiting merchant energy project is operating at a loss. nisource owns and operates a merchant energy facility, whiting clean energy, at bp whiting, indiana refinery. this facility uses natural gas to generate electricity for sale in the wholesale markets and to generate steam for industrial use by bp refinery and as such, the profitability of this facility is dependant upon the market prices for electricity and natural gas, regional load dispatch patterns and the steam requirements of bp refinery. it is anticipated that the facility will operate at a loss in the near term based on the current market view of forward pricing for gas and electricity. the after-tax loss for whiting clean energy was approximately $21.5 million for 2005 and $29.6 million for 2004. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk nisource inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 59 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data nisource inc. index page defined terms 61 report of independent registered public accounting firm 65 statements of consolidated income 67 consolidated balance sheets 68 statements of consolidated cash flows 70 statements of consolidated capitalization 71 statements of consolidated long-term debt 72 statements of consolidated common stockholders equity and comprehensive income 74 notes to consolidated financial statements 76 schedule i 121 schedule ii 125 60 table of contents item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms the following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this report: nisource subsidiaries and affiliates bay state bay state gas company capital markets nisource capital markets, inc. cer columbia energy resources, inc. cnr columbia natural resources, inc. columbia columbia energy group columbia atlantic trading columbia atlantic trading corporation columbia energy services columbia energy services corporation columbia gulf columbia gulf transmission company columbia of kentucky columbia gas of kentucky, inc. columbia of maryland columbia gas of maryland, inc. columbia of ohio columbia gas of ohio, inc. columbia of pennsylvania columbia gas of pennsylvania, inc. columbia of virginia columbia gas of virginia, inc. columbia natural resources columbia natural resources, inc. columbia service partners columbia service partners, inc columbia transmission columbia gas transmission corporation corc columbia of ohio receivables corporation crossroads pipeline crossroads pipeline company granite state gas granite state gas transmission, inc. hardy storage hardy storage company, l.l.c. iwc indianapolis water company kokomo gas kokomo gas and fuel company lake erie land lake erie land company millennium millennium pipeline company, l.p. nisource nisource inc. nisource corporate services nisource corporate services company nisource finance nisource finance corp. northern indiana northern indiana public service company northern indiana fuel and light northern indiana fuel and light company northern utilities northern utilities, inc. nrc nipsco receivables corporation pei pei holdings, inc. primary energy primary energy, inc. tpc energyusa-tpc corp. transcom columbia transmission communications corporation whiting clean energy whiting clean energy, inc. whiting leasing whiting leasing llc abbreviations afudc allowance for funds used during construction apb no. 25 accounting principles board opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees arp alternative regulatory plan bba british banker association bcf billion cubic feet board board of directors bp bp amoco p.l.c. cair clean air interstate rule camr clean air mercury rule cercla comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (also known as superfund) 61 table of contents item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms (continued) corporate pies corporate premium income equity securities dot united states department of transportation dth dekatherm ecrm environmental cost recovery mechanism ect environmental cost tracker eerm environmental expense recovery mechanism eitf emerging issues task force eitf no. 00-19 emerging issues task force issue no. 00-19, accounting for derivative financial instruments indexed to, and potentially settled in, a company own stock eitf no. 02-03 emerging issues task force issue no. 02-03, issues involved in accounting for derivative contracts held for trading purposes and contracts involved in energy trading and risk management activities eitf no. 96-16 emerging issues task force issue no. 96-16, investor accounting for an investee when the investor has a majority of the voting interest but the minority shareholder or shareholders have certain approval or veto rights eitf no. 98-10 emerging issues task force issue no. 98-10, accounting for energy trading and risk management activities empire empire state pipeline epa united states environmental protection agency epca electric power cost adjustment eps earnings per share fac fuel adjustment clause fasb financial accounting standards board ferc federal energy regulatory commission fin 45 fasb interpretation no. 45, guarantor accounting and disclosure requirements for guarantees, including indirect guarantees of indebtedness of others fin 47 fasb interpretation no. 47, accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations ftrs financial transmission rights gca gas cost adjustment gcim gas cost incentive mechanism gwh gigawatt hours hp horsepower ibm international business machines corp. idem indiana department of environmental management irs internal revenue service iurc indiana utility regulatory commission jupiter jupiter aluminum corporation ldcs local distribution companies libor london interbank offered rate lifo last-in, first-out mahonia mahonia ii limited massachusetts dte massachusetts department of telecommunications and energy mcf thousand cubic feet mgp manufactured gas plant miso midwest independent system operator mitchell station dean h. mitchell coal fired generating station mmdth million dekatherms mmi midwest market initiative mou memorandum of understanding 62 table of contents item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms (continued) mscp morgan stanley dean witter capital partners iv, l.p. mw megawatts naaqs national ambient air quality standards nov notice of violation nox nitrogen oxide nydos new york department of state nymex new york mercantile exchange opsb ohio power siting board oucc indiana office of utility consumer counselor piedmont piedmont natural gas company, inc. pip percentage of income payment plan pps price protection service prb powder river basin private power private power, llc psc kentucky public service commission puc public utilities commission puco public utilities commission of ohio qpai qualified production activities income ram retainage adjustment mechanism rcra resource conservation and recovery act sab no. 92 staff accounting bulletin no. 92, accounting and disclosures relating to loss contingencies sails sm stock appreciation income linked securities sm sec securities and exchange commission sfas statement of financial accounting standards sfas no. 5 statement of financial accounting standards no. 5, accounting for contingencies sfas no. 71 statement of financial accounting standards no. 71, accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation sfas no. 87 statement of financial accounting standards no. 87, employers accounting for pensions sfas no. 101 statement of financial accounting standards 101, regulated enterprises accounting for the discontinuation of application of financial accounting standards board statement no. 71 sfas no. 106 statement of financial accounting standards no. 106, employers accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions sfas no. 109 statement of financial accounting standards no. 109, accounting for uncertain tax positions sfas no. 123 statement of financial accounting standards no. 123, share-based payment sfas no. 123r statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r, share-based payment sfas no. 133 statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended sfas no. 140 statement of financial accounting standards no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial asset and extinguishments of liabilities sfas no. 142 statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets sfas no. 143 statement of financial accounting standards no. 143, accounting for asset retirement obligations sfas no. 144 statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets 63 table of contents item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms (continued) sip state implementation plan so2 sulfur dioxide sop statement of position sop 96-1 statement of position 96-1, environmental remediation liabilities sop 98-1 statement of position 98-1, accounting for the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use tcf trillion cubic feet triana triana energy holdings var value-at-risk and instrument sensitivity to market factors vng virginia natural gas, inc. vscc commonwealth of virginia state corporate commission 64 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk....................... 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - market risk disclosures." 44quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors nisource inc. there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding as a result of the acquisition of columbia. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,432.5 million outstanding as of december 31, 2006. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; and increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. compliance with these legal requirements requires nisource to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. in september 2004, the epa issued an nov to northern indiana alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. an adverse outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the epa requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial penalties. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. the cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased energy costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. nisource electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. electric operations in northern indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by events in the steel and steel related industries. in particular, sales to large industrial customers in these industries have been impacted by economic downturns generally, and may be affected by consolidation and globalization within such industries. the majority of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. virtually all of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. as part of a settlement reached in other regulatory proceedings, northern indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case with the iurc on or before july 1, 2008. the outcome for the rate case could have a material effect on nisource financial results. nisource recent outsourcing initiative and service agreement with ibm may not achieve the level of savings that was originally anticipated. additionally, many associated changes in systems and personnel are being made, increasing operational and control risk during transition, which may have an impact on the business and its financial condition. nisource original expectation of the 10-year agreement with ibm was to deliver upwards of $530 million in gross savings in operating and capital costs. this cost savings is dependent upon many factors, and unanticipated changes in operations may cause actual cost savings to be substantially less than expected. many functions have recently been transitioned to ibm and many new personnel have assumed responsibilities across these functions, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on nisource and its financial condition. as a part of this transformation, many new information technology systems and process changes have an accelerated time-line for completion, increasing the risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures which may have an impact on nisource and its financial condition. in august, 2006, nisource and ibm decided to delay further implementation of certain information technology systems due to difficulties encountered with the first wave of new system implementations. this delay may decrease the level of projected operating cost savings while continuing to ensure stable operations. nisource is currently engaged in an overall assessment of the outsourcing initiative primarily to focus on operational and transformational improvements and develop an integrated plan that enables nisource to achieve its business objectives going forward. nisource whiting merchant energy project is operating at a loss. nisource owns and operates a merchant energy facility, whiting clean energy, at bp whiting, indiana refinery. this facility uses natural gas to generate electricity for sale in the wholesale markets and to generate steam for industrial use by bp refinery. in the fourth quarter of 2006, nisource reached a new definitive agreement with bp redefining the terms under which whiting clean energy will provide steam to bp. the profitability of this facility will remain dependant upon the market prices for electricity and natural gas and regional load dispatch patterns. the after-tax loss for whiting clean energy was approximately $40.9 million for 2006 and $21.5 million for 2005. in addition, an amendment to the agreement with bp provides bp with an option, valid for 180 days from the amendment effective date in december 2006, for bp to purchase the facility free of liens, for $100 million. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. management believes it is unlikely that bp will exercise this option. the carrying amount of the whiting clean energy facility is approximately $275 million. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk nisource inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors nisource inc. there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding in part as a result of the acquisition of columbia and bay state. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,689.3 million outstanding as of december 31, 2007. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; and increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. on december 18, 2007, standard and poor lowered its senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its subsidiaries to bbb-. standard and poor outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on december 3, 2007, moody investors services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. moody changed its ratings outlook for nisource and its subsidiaries to negative from stable. on july 10, 2007, fitch ratings affirmed their bbb senior unsecured rating for nisource and the bbb ratings for northern indiana. fitch outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, an additional downgrade by standard and poor or moody would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard and poor or baa3 by moody s. the collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $40 million. in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could result in additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. compliance with these legal requirements requires nisource to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. in september 2004, the epa issued 10 item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. an nov to northern indiana alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the clean air act. an adverse outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the epa requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial penalties. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. the cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. nisource electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. electric operations in northern indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by events in the steel and steel related industries. in particular, sales to large industrial customers within these steel and steel related industries may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. the majority of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. virtually all of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. as part of a settlement reached in other regulatory proceedings, northern indiana has agreed to file an electric base rate case with the iurc on or before july 1, 2008. columbia of ohio filed a base rate case on march 3, 2008. columbia of pennsylvania filed a base rate case on january 28, 2008. both companies expect final resolution of the cases to occur in 2008. the outcome for any rate case could have a material effect on nisource financial results. nisource recently restructured its outsourcing agreement with ibm, which included transitioning many of the functions which had been outsourced. many associated changes in systems and personnel are being made, which may increase operational and control risks during transition and may have an impact on the business and its financial condition. under nisource restructured agreement with ibm, most functions, other than information technology, which had been outsourced to ibm will be transitioned back to nisource or other third party providers. there will be costs incurred to undertake this transition and there could be a risk of operational delays, potential errors and control failures during the transition phase. 11 item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. nisource whiting clean energy project has generated losses and may be sold at a substantial discount to the value of the facility on nisource balance sheet. nisource owns and operates a merchant energy facility, whiting clean energy, at bp whiting, indiana refinery. this facility uses natural gas to generate electricity for sale in the wholesale markets and to generate steam for industrial use by bp refinery. the profitability of this facility is dependant upon the market prices for electricity and natural gas and regional load dispatch patterns. on july 27, 2007, whiting clean energy submitted a proposal in response to the northern indiana-issued rfp 2008 combined cycle request for proposals. whiting clean energy was notified during october 2007 that its proposal to sell its facility was selected by northern indiana based on a purchase price of $210 million. however, on december 22, 2007, bp indicated it would exercise a contractual right of first refusal to purchase the whiting clean energy facility. nisource is in discussions with bp regarding several aspects of the offer. the carrying amount of the whiting clean energy facility is approximately $270 million. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk nisource inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 64 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data nisource inc. index page defined terms 66 report of independent registered public accounting firm 70 statements of consolidated income 72 consolidated balance sheets 73 statements of consolidated cash flows 75 statements of consolidated long-term debt 76 statements of consolidated common stockholders equity and comprehensive income 78 notes to consolidated financial statements 80 schedule i 134 schedule ii 138 65 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms the following is a list of frequently used abbreviations or acronyms that are found in this report: nisource subsidiaries and affiliates bay state bay state gas company capital markets nisource capital markets, inc. cer columbia energy resources, inc. cnr columbia natural resources, inc. columbia columbia energy group columbia atlantic trading columbia atlantic trading corporation columbia energy services columbia energy services corporation columbia gulf columbia gulf transmission company columbia of kentucky columbia gas of kentucky, inc. columbia of maryland columbia gas of maryland, inc. columbia of ohio columbia gas of ohio, inc. columbia of pennsylvania columbia gas of pennsylvania, inc. columbia of virginia columbia gas of virginia, inc. columbia petroleum columbia petroleum corporation columbia transmission columbia gas transmission corporation corc columbia of ohio receivables corporation crossroads pipeline crossroads pipeline company granite state gas granite state gas transmission, inc. hardy storage hardy storage company, l.l.c. iwc indianapolis water company kokomo gas kokomo gas and fuel company lake erie land lake erie land company millennium millennium pipeline company, l.p. ndc douglas properties ndc douglas properties, inc. nisource nisource inc. nisource corporate services nisource corporate services company nisource development company nisource development company, inc. nisource finance nisource finance corp. northern indiana northern indiana public service company northern indiana fuel and light northern indiana fuel and light company northern utilities northern utilities, inc. nrc nipsco receivables corporation pei pei holdings, inc. primary energy primary energy, inc. tpc energyusa-tpc corp. transcom columbia transmission communications corporation whiting clean energy whiting clean energy, inc. abbreviations afudc allowance for funds used during construction aicpa american institute of certified public accountants algonquin algonquin gas transmission co. aoc administrative order by consent order apb no. 25 accounting principles board opinion no. 25, accounting for stock issued to employees asm ancillary services market bart best alternative retrofit technology bba british banker association bcf billion cubic feet board board of directors bp bp amoco p.l.c cair clean air interstate rule camr clean air mercury rule 66 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms (continued) ccgt combined cycle gas turbine cercla comprehensive environmental response compensation and liability act (also known as superfund) cpcn certificate of public convenience and necessity day 2 began april 1, 2005 and refers to the operational control of the energy markets by miso, including the dispatching of wholesale electricity and generation, managing transmission constraints, and managing the day-ahead, real-time and financial transmission rights markets dot united states department of transportation dth dekatherm ecr environmental cost recovery ecrm environmental cost recovery mechanism ect environmental cost tracker eer environmental expense recovery eerm environmental expense recovery mechanism eitf no 06-03 emerging issues task force issue no 06-03, how sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities should be presented in the income statement (that is, gross versus net presentation) empire empire state pipeline epa united states environmental protection agency eps earnings per share esa energy sales agreement fac fuel adjustment clause fasb financial accounting standards board ferc federal energy regulatory commission fin 46r fasb interpretation no 46, consolidation of variable interest entities (revised december 2003) an interpretation of arb no 51 fin 39 fasb interpretation no 39, offsetting of amounts related to certain contracts an interpretation of apb opinion no 10 and fasb statement no 105 fin 47 fasb interpretation no 47, accounting for conditional asset retirement obligations fin 48 fasb interpretation no 48, accounting for uncertainty in income taxes fip federal implementation plan fsp fin 39-1 fasb staff position fin39-1: amendment of fasb interpretation no 39 ftrs financial transmission rights general electric general electric international, inc. gwh gigawatt hours hp horsepower ibm international business machines corp ibm agreement the agreement for business process support services idem indiana department of environmental management iroquois iroquois gas transmission system lp irp integrated resource plan irs internal revenue service iurc indiana utility regulatory commission ldcs local distribution companies libor london interbank offered rate lifo last-in, first-out lng liquefied natural gas mgp manufactured gas plant 67 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms (continued) miso midwest independent transmission system operator mitchell station dean h mitchell coal fired generating station mmdth million dekatherms mw megawatts n/a not available naaqs national ambient air quality standards nasdaq national association of securities dealers automated quotations nov notice of violation nox nitrogen oxide npdes national pollutant discharge elimination system nymex new york mercantile exchange oucc indiana office of utility consumer counselor pcb polychlorinated biphenyls piedmont piedmont natural gas company, inc. ppm parts per million pps price protection service puco public utilities commission of ohio qpai qualified production activities income rcra resource conservation and recovery act rfp request for proposal sab no. 92 staff accounting bulletin no. 92, accounting and disclosures relating to loss contingencies sec securities and exchange commission sfas no. 5 statement of financial accounting standards no. 5, accounting for contingencies sfas no. 71 statement of financial accounting standards no. 71, accounting for the effects of certain types of regulation sfas no. 87 statement of financial accounting standards no. 87, employers accounting for pensions sfas no. 101 statement of financial accounting standards 101, regulated enterprises accounting for the discontinuation of application of financial accounting standards board statement no. 71 sfas no. 106 statement of financial accounting standards no. 106, employers accounting for postretirement benefits other than pensions sfas no. 123 statement of financial accounting standards no. 123, share-based payment sfas no. 123r statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r, share-based payment sfas no. 131 statement of financial accounting standards no. 131, disclosures about segments of an enterprise and related information sfas no. 133 statement of financial accounting standards no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities, as amended sfas no. 140 statement of financial accounting standards no. 140, accounting for transfers and servicing of financial asset and extinguishments of liabilities sfas no. 141r statement of financial accounting standards no. 141r, business combinations sfas no. 142 statement of financial accounting standards no. 142, goodwill and other intangible assets sfas no. 143 statement of financial accounting standards no. 143, accounting for asset retirement obligations 68 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. defined terms (continued) sfas no. 144 statement of financial accounting standards no. 144, accounting for the impairment or disposal of long-lived assets sfas no. 157 statement of financial accounting standards no. 157, fair value measurement sfas no. 158 statement of financial accounting standards no. 158, employers accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans sfas no. 159 statement of financial accounting standards no. 159, the fair value option for financial assets and financial liabilities including an amendment of fasb statement no. 115 sfas no. 160 statement of financial accounting standards no. 160, noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements an amendment of arb no. 51 sip state implementation plan sng synthetic natural gas so2 sulfur dioxide sop 96-1 statement of position 96-1, environmental remediation liabilities sop 98-1 statement of position 98-1, accounting for the costs of computer software developed or obtained for internal use var value-at-risk and instrument sensitivity to market factors 69 item 8. financial statements and supplementary data (continued) nisource inc. report of independent registered public accounting firm to the board of directors and stockholders of nisource inc.: we have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and statements of consolidated long-term debt of nisource inc. and subsidiaries (the company ) as of december 31, 2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, of common stockholders equity and comprehensive income, and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended december 31, 2007. our audits also included the financial statement schedules listed in the index atrisk factors 10 risk factors nisource inc. there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness, which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource has a significant amount of indebtedness outstanding in part as a result of the acquisition of columbia and bay state. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $7,576.7 million outstanding as of december 31, 2008. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; and increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. on december 16, 2008, standard and poor affirmed its senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its subsidiaries at bbb-; however, it changed the ratings outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries to negative from stable. on february 4, 2009, moody investors services affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. moody outlook for nisource and its subsidiaries is negative. on february 4, 2009, fitch lowered its senior unsecured ratings for nisource to bbb- and for northern indiana to bbb. fitch outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, an additional downgrade by standard and poor s, moody or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard and poor or baa3 by moody s. the collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $30 million. in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could result in additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. in addition, under northern indiana trade receivables sales program, northern indiana may not sell any new receivables if northern indiana debt rating falls below bbb- or baa3 by standard and poor or moody s, respectively. adverse economic and market conditions and increases in interest rates may reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. the credit markets and the general economy have been experiencing a period of large-scale turmoil and upheaval characterized by the bankruptcy, failure, collapse or sale of various financial institutions and an unprecedented level of intervention from the united states federal government. while the ultimate outcome of these events cannot be predicted, it may have an adverse material effect on nisource. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. a decline in the economy impacting nisource operating jurisdictions could adversely affect nisource ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. the current economic downturn and tightening of access to credit markets, coupled with nisource current credit ratings, could impact nisource ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost. refer to note 16, long-term debt, of the consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource results of operations and financial position. nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the incurrence of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste and solid waste. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to commit significant expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. nisource subsidiaries emit greenhouse gases as a result of operations. future legislative and regulatory programs could significantly restrict emissions of these greenhouse gases. compliance costs associated with these requirements could potentially be significant and affect cash flow and profitability. if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. in september 2004, the epa issued an nov to northern indiana alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the caa. an adverse outcome in this matter could require capital expenditures beyond the epa requirements that cannot be determined at this time and could require payment of substantial penalties. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised, and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would therefore reduce net income. the cost impact of any new or amended legislation would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource financial results. nisource electric operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. electric operations in northern indiana have been and may continue to be adversely affected by events in the steel and steel related industries. in particular, sales to large industrial customers within these steel and steel related industries may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. steel industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increased costs, and fluctuating demand for their products. the majority of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. virtually all of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. as part of a settlement reached in a previous regulatory proceeding, northern indiana filed a petition for new electric base rates and charges on june 27, 2008 and filed its case-in-chief on august 29, 2008. assuming the case goes through the full procedural schedule without settlement, the final hearing is scheduled to begin july 27, 2009 and new rates are anticipated to take effect in early 2010. the outcome for any rate case could have a material effect on nisource financial results. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. nisource has significant goodwill and amortizable intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or amortizable intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its amortizable intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill would also be tested for impairment when factors might indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable such as reduced cash flow estimates. another factor could be a sustained decline in the stock price and market capitalization below the book value. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or amortizable intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under the five-year revolving credit facility and the two-year term loan facility. this covenant requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in the 2005 private placement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce our ability to service our customers. a disruption or failure of our natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within our electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors (continued) nisource inc. catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and events of this nature could adversely affect nisource results of operations, financial position and cash flows. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk nisource inc. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 74 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors n i ource i nc . there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource's operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource's securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $8,103.2 million outstanding as of december 31, 2012. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource's debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource's failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact nisource's liquidity. on december 11, 2012, fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at bbb-, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. fitch's outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on november 16, 2012, moody's investors service affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. moody's outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on february 29, 2012, standard &amp; poor's affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its subsidiaries at bbb-. standard &amp; poor's outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by standard &amp; poor's, moody's or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $27.8 million. in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. under columbia of pennsylvania's trade receivables sales program, an event of termination occurs if nisource's debt rating is withdrawn by either standard &amp; poor's or moody's, or falls below bb- or ba3 at either standard &amp; poor's or moody's, respectively. additionally, as a result of nisource's participation in certain derivative activities, a credit downgrade could cause nisource to be required to post substantial collateral in support of past and current transactions. these collateral requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on nisource's liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows. lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company's long-term business strategy. nisource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned. because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, nisource may not be able to execute its four-part business plan as intended. nisource's commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; and the actual results of nisource's financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management could deviate materially from planned outcomes. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, nisource cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained. continued sluggishness in the economy impacting nisource's operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource's ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. if the current economic recovery remains slow or credit markets again tighten, nisource's ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost could be negatively impacted. refer to note 16, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource's projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource's results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource's net revenues is subject to economic regulation and is exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource's financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain of the markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource's growth strategy and cash flows. nisource's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource's subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource's facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource's subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource's control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource's subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource's facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource's facilities. because nisource's operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource attempts to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. the current administration has made it clear that it is focused on reducing ghg emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on ghg emissions could increase nisource's cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or nisource's profitability. compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect nisource's cash flow. the cost impact of any new or amended ghg legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery from customers. changes in costs could affect nisource's financial position and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource's financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource's financial results. nisource's business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource's service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource's financial results. nisource's electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource's extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on nisource. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill would also be tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. a covenant in the five-year revolving credit facility requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2012, the ratio was 59.3%. changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource's financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource's tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource's ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource's financial results. future changes in accounting rules, such as ifrs, and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results. transportation and storage of natural gas, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. nisource's gas distribution and gas transmission and storage activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, accidents, including third party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of its operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to nisource. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. the location of pipelines and storage facilities, or generation, transmission, substations and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact nisource's financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite diligent efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in nisource's inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and could result in increased capital expenditures and expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect nisource's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource's business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. additionally, nisource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach nisource's cyber defenses. although nisource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess nisource's countermeasures, a security breach of nisource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of nisource's generation, transmission, storage and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject nisource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to nisource's customers or employees, or (iii) impact nisource's ability to manage nisource's businesses. nisource's capital projects subject it to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks. nisource gas transmission &amp; storage operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven growth projects across its system, primarily surrounding the marcellus and utica shale production area in the states of pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia. additionally, nisource is beginning its comprehensive interstate natural gas pipeline modernization program. these projects include constructing or purchasing pipelines and treatment and processing facilities, which subjects nisource to construction risks and risks that gas supplies will not be available. some projects may also be subject to risks related to fluctuation in gas costs. nisource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities. similarly, nisource gas distribution is engaged in an interstate natural gas pipeline modernization program to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. northern indiana also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including air-quality related improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities. as nisource undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, nisource may construct or purchase some of these projects to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. nisource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource's operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource's infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. although nisource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. the company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . growing competition in the gas transportation industry could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts. as a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and the shift in natural gas production areas, end users and ldcs may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with nisource's customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. the inability of nisource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results. nisource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. nisource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. substantially all of nisource's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. accordingly, nisource's ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to nisource, nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors n i ource i nc . there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource's operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource's securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $8,834.0 million outstanding as of december 31, 2013. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource's debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource's failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact nisource's liquidity. on january 31, 2014, moody's investors service upgraded the senior unsecured rating for nisource to baa2 from baa3 and nisource's commercial paper rating to p-2 from p-3. additionally, the rating for nipsco was upgraded to baa1 from baa2 and the rating for columbia of massachusetts was affirmed at baa2. moody's outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on december 9, 2013, fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at bbb-, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. fitch's outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on february 25, 2013, standard &amp; poor's affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its subsidiaries at bbb-. standard &amp; poor's outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by standard &amp; poor's or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $35.4 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. these requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on nisource's liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows. lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company's long-term business strategy. nisource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned. because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, nisource may not be able to execute its four-part business plan as intended. nisource's commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; natural gas production activity, including production facilitated by hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, could be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect nisource's gas transmission, storage and midstream business expansion opportunities; and, therefore, the actual results of nisource's financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management, could deviate materially from planned outcomes. in addition, nisource's growth plan relies on the continued view of natural gas as an economically and 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . ecologically attractive fuel. any developments that cause natural gas no longer to be seen as a favored fuel could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, nisource cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained. continued sluggishness in the economy impacting nisource's operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource's ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. if the current economic recovery remains slow or credit markets again tighten, nisource's ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost could be negatively impacted. refer to note 16, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource's projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource's results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource's financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource's growth strategy and cash flows. nisource's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource's subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource's facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource's subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource's control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource's subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource's facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource's facilities. because nisource's operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource attempts to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. the current administration has made it clear that it is focused on reducing ghg emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on ghg emissions could increase nisource's cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or nisource's profitability. compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect nisource's cash flow. the cost impact of any new or amended ghg legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery from customers. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect nisource's financial position, operating results and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource's financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource's financial results. nisource's business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource's service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource's financial results. nisource's electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource's extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on nisource. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. nisource is subject to a financial covenant under its five-year revolving credit facility and its three year term loan, which requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2013, the ratio was 60.0% . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource's financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource's tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource's ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource's financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. transportation and storage of natural gas, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. nisource's gas distribution and gas transmission and storage activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, accidents, including third party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to nisource. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. the location of pipelines and storage facilities, or generation, transmission, substations and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact nisource's financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite diligent efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in nisource's inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and could result in increased capital expenditures and expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect nisource's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource's business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. a cyber-attack on any of nisource's or certain third party computer systems upon which nisource relies may adversely affect its ability to operate. nisource is reliant on technology to run its businesses, which are dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of its business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of its gas pipelines and storage facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. any failure of nisource's computer systems, or those of its customers, suppliers or others with whom it does business, could materially disrupt nisource's ability to operate its business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to nisource's reputation. additionally, nisource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach nisource's cyber-defenses. although nisource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess nisource's countermeasures, a security breach of nisource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of nisource's generation, transmission, storage and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject nisource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to nisource's customers or employees, or (iii) impact nisource's ability to manage nisource's businesses. nisource's capital projects subject it to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks. nisource's columbia pipeline group operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven expansion projects across its system and develop its midstream business through gathering and processing activities, primarily surrounding the marcellus and utica shale production area in the states of pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia. additionally, nisource is executing on its comprehensive interstate natural gas pipeline modernization program. these modernization projects include constructing or replacing pipelines and other facilities, which subjects nisource to construction risks and risks that gas supplies may not be available. some expansion projects may also be subject to risks related to fluctuation in construction and gas costs. both modernization and expansion projects are reliant on the contractual performance of vendors and suppliers of materials and supplies and services. nonperformance or underperformance could subject nisource to increased costs. further, nisource is subject to regulatory approval of various projects. delays in this process could increase costs of the projects. nisource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities. similarly, nisource gas distribution operations is engaged in an intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization program to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including air-quality related improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities. as nisource undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, nisource may construct or purchase some of these projects to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. nisource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource's operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource's infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. although nisource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. the company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether. growing competition in the gas transportation and storage industries could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts. as a consequence of the increase in competition and the shift in natural gas production areas, customers such as ldcs and other end users, may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with nisource's customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. the inability of nisource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results and cash flows. nisource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. nisource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. substantially all of nisource's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. accordingly, nisource's ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to nisource, nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 52 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors n i ource i nc . there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource's operating results, financial condition and cash flows. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource's securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,999.4 million outstanding as of december 31, 2014. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource's debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource's failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact nisource's liquidity. the announcement of the proposed separation on september 28, 2014 triggered ratings reviews by standard &amp; poor's ("standard &amp; poor's"), moody's investors service ("moody's"), and fitch ratings inc. ("fitch"). on september 29, 2014, standard &amp; poor's affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource and the existing ratings of its other rated subsidiaries at bbb- and the nisource finance commercial paper rating of a-3, placing the company's ratings on watch positive. on september 29, 2014, moody's investors service affirmed the nisource senior unsecured rating of baa2 and commercial paper rating of p-2, with a stable outlook. additionally, moody's affirmed nipsco's baa1 rating and affirmed the baa2 rating for columbia of massachusetts. on september 29, 2014, fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at bbb-, and the existing ratings of its other rated subsidiaries. fitch's outlook for nisource and its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by either standard &amp; poor's or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard &amp; poor's or baa3 by moody's. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $39.3 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. a credit downgrade could also adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments that are a central element of nisource's long-term business strategy. these requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on nisource's liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows. lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company's long-term business strategy. nisource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned. because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, nisource may not be able to execute its business plan as intended. nisource's commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; natural gas production activity, including production facilitated by hydraulic fracturing and horizontal drilling, could be less than anticipated, which could adversely affect nisource's gas transmission, storage and midstream business expansion opportunities; and, therefore, the actual results of 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource's financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management, could deviate materially from planned outcomes. in addition, nisource's growth plan relies on the continued view of natural gas as an economically and ecologically attractive fuel. any developments that cause natural gas no longer to be seen as a favored fuel could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, nisource cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained. continued sluggishness in the economy impacting nisource's operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource's ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. if the current economic recovery remains slow or credit markets again tighten, nisource's ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost could be negatively impacted. refer to note 14, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource's projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource's results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource's financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource's growth strategy and cash flows. nisource's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource's subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource's facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource's subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . if caused by factors beyond nisource's control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource's subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource's facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource's facilities. because nisource's operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource attempts to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. the current administration has made it clear that it is focused on reducing ghg emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on ghg emissions could increase nisource's cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or nisource's profitability. compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect nisource's cash flow. the cost impact of any new or amended ghg legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery from customers. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect nisource's financial position, operating results and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource's financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource's financial results. nisource's business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource's service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource's financial results. nisource's electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource's extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on nisource. nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. nisource is subject to a financial covenant under its five-year revolving credit facility and its term loans, which requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2014, the ratio was 62% . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource's financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource's tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource's ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource's financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. transportation and storage of natural gas, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. nisource's gas distribution and gas transmission and storage activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, accidents, including third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to nisource. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. the location of pipelines and storage facilities, or generation, transmission, substations and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact nisource's financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite diligent efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in nisource's inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and result in increased capital expenditures and expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect nisource's results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource's business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. a cyber-attack on any of nisource's or certain third-party computer systems upon which nisource relies may adversely affect its ability to operate. nisource is reliant on technology to run its businesses, which are dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of its business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of its gas pipelines and storage facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. any failure of nisource's computer systems, or those of its customers, suppliers or others with whom it does business, could materially disrupt nisource's ability to operate its business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to nisource's reputation. additionally, nisource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach nisource's cyber-defenses. although nisource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess nisource's countermeasures, a security breach of nisource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of nisource's generation, transmission, storage and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject nisource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to nisource's customers or employees, or (iii) impact nisource's ability to manage nisource's businesses. nisource's capital projects subject it to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks. nisource's columbia pipeline group operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven expansion projects across its system and develop its midstream business through gathering and processing activities, primarily surrounding the marcellus and utica shale production area in the states of pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia. additionally, nisource is executing on its comprehensive interstate natural gas pipeline modernization program. these modernization projects include constructing or replacing pipelines and other facilities, which subjects nisource to construction risks and risks that gas supplies may not be available. some expansion projects may also be subject to risks related to fluctuation in construction and gas costs. both modernization and expansion projects are reliant on the contractual performance of vendors and suppliers of materials and supplies and services. nonperformance or underperformance could subject nisource to increased costs. further, nisource is subject to regulatory approval of various projects. delays in this process could increase costs of the projects. nisource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities. similarly, nisource gas distribution operations is engaged in an intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization program to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including air-quality related improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities. as nisource undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, nisource may construct or purchase some of these projects to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. nisource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource's operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource's infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. although nisource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. the company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether. growing competition in the gas transportation and storage industries could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts. as a consequence of the increase in competition and the shift in natural gas production areas, customers such as ldcs and other end users, may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with nisource's customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. the inability of nisource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results and cash flows. nisource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. nisource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. substantially all of nisource's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. accordingly, nisource's ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to nisource, nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. following the proposed separation, all of the entities that make up nisource's columbia pipeline group operations will be separated from nisource into a separately publicly traded company. the related assets will no longer be held by subsidiaries of nisource, which may negatively affect nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends. the proposed separation may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or terms, or at all, and may not achieve the intended benefits. the proposed separation is subject to conditions, including, without limitation, final nisource board of directors approval and the receipt by nisource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of cpg shares to nisource stockholders will qualify as tax-free under section 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code. unanticipated developments or changes in market conditions may delay the proposed separation, and the proposed separation may not occur on the currently contemplated timeline or at all. nisource cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the proposed separation will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, if at all. furthermore, there are various uncertainties and risks relating to the process of the proposed separation that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including disruption of our operations and impairment of our relationship with regulators, key personnel, customers and vendors. if the proposed separation is successfully completed, nisource will face new and unique risks, including having fewer assets, reduced financial resources and less diversification of revenue sources, which may adversely impact nisource's financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the changes in our operational and financial profile may not meet some or all of our stockholders' investment strategies, which could cause investors to sell their nisource shares and otherwise decrease demand for shares of nisource common stock. excess selling will cause the relative market price of nisource common stock to decrease, and the market price of nisource common stock may be subject to greater volatility following the completion of the proposed separation. a condition to the proposed separation is the receipt by nisource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of cpg shares to nisource stockholders will qualify as tax-free under section 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code. however, even if we receive such an opinion, the internal revenue service could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. both nisource and our stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . following the proposed separation, both nisource and cpg expect to initially receive an investment grade credit rating from standard &amp; poor's rating service, moody's investor service and fitch ratings inc. (ratings from credit agencies are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold our securities, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating.) we may not initially receive such ratings or, if received, our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. there is no assurance that we will continue to maintain such investment grade credit ratings in the future. if a rating agency were to downgrade our rating below investment grade, our borrowing costs would increase and our funding sources could decrease. in addition, a failure by us to maintain an investment grade rating could affect our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. see "a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact nisource's liquidity" above. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 53 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource's operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of the company's common stock. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $6,949.6 million outstanding as of december 31, 2015. the company's substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit the company's ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which it operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource's debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource's failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact nisource's liquidity. the credit rating agencies periodically review the company's ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure and earnings profile. in 2015, moody's affirmed the nisource senior unsecured rating of baa2 and its commercial paper rating of p-2, with stable outlooks. moody's also affirmed nipsco's baa1 rating and columbia gas of massachusetts's baa2 rating, with stable outlooks. in 2015, standard &amp; poor's raised the senior unsecured ratings of nisource and its subsidiaries to bbb+ and nisource's commercial paper rating to a-2, with stable outlooks. in 2015, fitch affirmed the nisource senior unsecured rating of bbb-, commercial paper rating of f3 and the existing ratings of its other rated subsidiaries. fitch revised its outlook to positive. the company is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings, however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. the company's credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive. a negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. certain nisource subsidiaries have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are below investment grade. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. as of december 31, 2015 the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $26.9 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. nisource may not be able to execute its business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments. business or regulatory conditions may result in nisource not being able to execute its business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. nisource's customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed. natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and ecologically attractive fuel. any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. 8 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing modest growth, nisource cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether or not it will be sustained. deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in nisource's operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource's ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. the company relies on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements. market turmoil could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at reasonable borrowing costs and terms. reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows. refer to note 14, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource's projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact nisource's results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource's financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource's growth strategy and financial position. nisource's costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the costs associated with environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource is subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource's facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations or is found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource's control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to increase environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to nisource. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource's facilities or increased compliance costs, 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource's facilities. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect nisource's financial position, operating results and cash flows. because nisource operates fossil fuel facilities, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource continues to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be eliminated. the epa has made clear that it is focused on reducing ghg emissions from the energy industry. on october 18, 2015, the epa finalized its cpp, which regulates greenhouse gas emissions from coal and natural gas electric generating units. the cpp is subject to various legal challenges, but, if the cpp survives these challenges, the compliance costs associated with cpp requirements could impact cash flow. in addition, the cpp could increase nisource's cost of producing energy, which may impact customer demand and/or nisource's profitability. the cpp requires states (or in some cases the epa) to develop individualized plans to meet the cpp emission reduction requirements. depending on the array of programs chosen by the state of indiana or epa, nisource's cpp compliance costs could be substantial. it is also possible that additional future ghg legislation and/or regulation could materially impact nisource. the cost impact of any new and/or amended ghg legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource's financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence. therefore, prevailing economic conditions may affect nisource's financial results. nisource's business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource's service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource's financial results. nisource's electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. from time to time, nisource has used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource's extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. nisource monitors its credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . levels, and to traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties. nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings and negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in its financial statements for the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. nisource is subject to a financial covenant under its five-year revolving credit facility, which requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2015, the ratio was 64% . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource's financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource's tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource's ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource's financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. distribution of natural gas, and the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in incidents and other operating risks and costs. nisource's gas distribution and transmission activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, incidents, including third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to nisource. the location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such events. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact nisource's financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in incidents and in nisource's inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impacting revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact nisource's financial results. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . the impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that damage the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource's business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. a cyber-attack on any of nisource's or certain third-party computer systems upon which nisource relies may adversely affect its ability to operate. nisource is reliant on technology to run its businesses, which are dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of its business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of its gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. any failure of nisource's computer systems, or those of its customers, suppliers or others with whom it does business, could materially disrupt nisource's ability to operate its business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to nisource's reputation. additionally, nisource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach nisource's cyber-defenses. although nisource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess nisource's countermeasures, a security breach of nisource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of nisource's generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject nisource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to nisource's customers or employees, and/or (iii) impact nisource's ability to manage nisource's businesses. nisource's capital projects and programs subject the company to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks. nisource is engaged in an intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization program to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities. as nisource undertakes these projects and programs, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, nisource may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. nisource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects and programs. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource's operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource's infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. further, adverse weather may affect nisource's ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. nisource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. substantially all of nisource's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. accordingly, nisource's ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to nisource, nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. following the separation, all of the entities formerly included in nisource's columbia pipeline group operations segment have been separated from nisource and are held by a separate publicly traded company (cpg). the related assets are no longer held by subsidiaries of nisource, which may negatively affect nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends. the separation may not achieve the intended benefits and may result in significant tax liabilities. nisource cannot predict with certainty when the benefits expected from the separation will occur or the extent to which they will be achieved, if at all. furthermore, there are various uncertainties and risks relating to the process of the separation that could have a negative impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, including disruption of our operations and impairment of our relationship with regulators, key personnel, customers and vendors. as a result of the completion of the separation, nisource faces new and unique risks, including having fewer assets, reduced financial resources and less diversification of revenue sources. the separation was conditioned on the receipt by nisource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of cpg shares to nisource stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under section 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code. even though nisource has received such an opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. both nisource and its stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource's operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect the company's business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of the company's common stock. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $7,909.3 million outstanding as of december 31, 2016. the company's substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit the company's ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the company's flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which it operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource's debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource's failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. a drop in nisource's credit rating could adversely impact nisource's liquidity. the credit rating agencies periodically review the company's ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure and earnings profile. in 2016, moody's affirmed the nisource senior unsecured rating of baa2 and its commercial paper rating of p-2, with stable outlooks. moody's also affirmed nipsco's baa1 rating and columbia of massachusetts's baa2 rating, with stable outlooks. in 2016, standard &amp; poor's affirmed the bbb+ senior unsecured ratings of nisource and its subsidiaries and affirmed nisource's commercial paper rating of a-2, with stable outlooks. in 2016, fitch upgraded the long-term issuer default ratings of nisource and nipsco to bbb and affirmed the commercial paper rating of f3, with stable outlooks. the company is committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings, however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. the company's credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive. a negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. certain nisource subsidiaries have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are below investment grade. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. as of december 31, 2016, the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $35.4 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. nisource may not be able to execute its business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments. business or regulatory conditions may result in nisource not being able to execute its business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. nisource's customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed. natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and ecologically attractive fuel. any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing modest growth, nisource cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether or not it will be sustained. deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in nisource's operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource's ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. the company relies on access to the capital markets to finance its liquidity and long-term capital requirements. market turmoil could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt. reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows. refer to note 14, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource's projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact nisource's results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of nisource's net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource's financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource's growth strategy and financial position. failure to adapt to advances in technology could make nisource less competitive. a key element of nisource's business model is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. research and development activities are ongoing for new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, customer-oriented generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation. this could cause our market share to erode and the value of our generating facilities to decline. in addition, a failure by nisource to effectively adapt to changes in technology could harm nisource's ability to remain competitive in the marketplace for its products, services and processes. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource is exposed to significant reputational risks, which make it vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception. as a utility company, nisource is subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of our services and the speed with which nisource is able to respond effectively to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events, as well as our own or third parties' actions or failure to act. if customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of nisource, this could result in less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight, increased litigation and negative public perception. the imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition of nisource. nisource's businesses are regulated under numerous environmental laws. the cost of compliance with these laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant. liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed laws could have a material adverse effect on the business, results of operations, cash flows, and the financial condition of nisource. nisource's businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and rules that regulate, among other things, air emissions, water usage and discharges, and waste products such as coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at many of nisource's facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource fails to comply with environmental laws and regulations or is found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource's control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and injunctions to remedy the failure or harm. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to increase environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to nisource. revised or additional laws and regulations may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource's facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers through regulated rates and could, therefore, impact nisource's financial position, financial results, and cash flow. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource's facilities. an area of significant uncertainty and risk are the laws concerning emission of ghg. because nisource operates fossil fuel facilities, emissions of ghgs are an expected and unavoidable aspect of the business. while nisource continues to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be eliminated. revised or additional future ghg legislation and/or regulation could materially impact nisource's financial position, financial results, and cash flows. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for environmental capital projects, remediation of past harm, or the costs of operating pollution reduction strategies or equipment can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect nisource's financial position, financial results and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource's financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence. therefore, prevailing economic conditions may affect nisource's financial results. nisource's business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource's service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. the implementation of nipsco's electric generation strategy, including the retirement of its coal generation units, may not achieve intended results. on november 1, 2016, nipsco submitted its integrated resource plan with the iurc setting forth its short- and long-term electric generation plans in an effort to maintain affordability while providing reliable, flexible and cleaner sources of power. however, there are inherent risks and uncertainties, including changes in market conditions, environmental regulations, commodity costs and customer expectations, which may impede nipsco's ability to achieve these intended results. in addition, the integrated resource plan included an intention to retire the bailly coal generation units (units 7 and 8) as soon as mid-2018 and two units (units 17 and 18) at the r.m. schahfer generating station by the end of 2023. the miso subsequently approved nipsco's plan to retire the two bailly coal generation units by may 31, 2018. nipsco's electric generation strategy could require significant future capital expenditures, operating costs and charges to earnings that may negatively impact nisource's financial position, financial results and cash flows. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource's financial results. nisource's electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. from time to time, nisource has used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource's extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. nisource monitors its credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and to traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties. nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings and negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in its financial statements for the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. nisource is subject to a financial covenant under its five-year revolving credit facility, which requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2016, the ratio was 66% . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource's financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource's tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. for example, the trump administration has recently called for substantial change to fiscal and tax policies, which may include comprehensive tax reform. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. separately, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource's ability to utilize tax benefits 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource's financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial condition and results of operations. distribution of natural gas, and the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in incidents and other operating risks and costs. nisource's gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, incidents, including third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of its operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to nisource. the location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such events. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact nisource's financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite efforts by nisource to properly maintain or upgrade these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in incidents and in nisource's inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impacting revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact nisource's financial results. the impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect nisource's financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that damage the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource's business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. a cyber-attack on any of nisource's or certain third-party computer systems upon which nisource relies may adversely affect its ability to operate. nisource is reliant on technology to run its businesses, which are dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of its business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of its gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. any failure of nisource's computer systems, or those of its customers, suppliers or others with whom it does business, could materially disrupt nisource's ability to operate its business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to nisource's reputation. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . additionally, nisource's information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach nisource's cyber-defenses. although nisource attempts to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess nisource's countermeasures, a security breach of nisource's information systems could (i) impact the reliability of nisource's generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact nisource's compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject nisource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to nisource's customers or employees, and/or (iii) impact nisource's ability to manage nisource's businesses. nisource's capital projects and programs subject the company to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks. nisource is engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities. as nisource undertakes these projects and programs, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, nisource may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. nisource also may not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the projects and programs. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource's operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource's infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. further, adverse weather may affect nisource's ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm nisource's results of operations. nisource operates in an industry that requires many of its employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for nisource due to market, economic, employment and other conditions. failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect nisource's ability to manage and operate its business. if nisource is unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, its results of operations could be adversely affected. nisource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. nisource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. substantially all of nisource's consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. accordingly, nisource's ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to nisource, nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. following the separation, all of the entities formerly included in nisource's columbia pipeline group operations segment have been separated from nisource and are held by a separate company (cpg). the related assets are no longer held by subsidiaries of nisource, which may negatively affect nisource's ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends. the separation may result in significant tax liabilities. the separation was conditioned on the receipt by nisource of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of cpg shares to nisource stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under section 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code. even though nisource has received such an opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. both nisource and its stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable. 14 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 38 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors n i ource i nc . our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. we had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,002.2 million outstanding as of december 31, 2017 . our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which we operate; lead parties with whom we do business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for us to transact such business; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit our ability to execute on our growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund our substantial infrastructure investment program. some of our debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. a drop in our credit ratings could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. the credit rating agencies periodically review our ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure and earnings profile. in 2017, moody's affirmed the nisource senior unsecured rating of baa2 and its commercial paper rating of p-2, with stable outlooks. moody's also affirmed nipsco's baa1 rating and columbia of massachusetts's baa2 rating, with stable outlooks. in 2017, standard &amp; poor's affirmed the bbb+ senior unsecured ratings of nisource and its subsidiaries and affirmed nisource's commercial paper rating of a-2, with stable outlooks. in 2017, fitch affirmed the long-term issuer default ratings of nisource and nipsco to bbb and affirmed the commercial paper rating of f3, with stable outlooks. a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. we are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings, however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive. a negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners. certain nisource subsidiaries have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are dropped below investment grade. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of gas or power. as of december 31, 2017, the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $46.1 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require additional credit support as described above. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . we may not be able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments. business or regulatory conditions may result in us not being able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. our customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed. natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and environmentally attractive fuel. certain groups may oppose natural gas delivery and infrastructure investments because of perceived environmental impacts associated with the natural gas supply chain and end use. energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage and other factors may reduce energy demand. any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. while the national economy is experiencing modest growth, we cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether or not it will be sustained. deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in our operating jurisdictions could adversely impact our ability to maintain or grow our customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce revenue growth and increase operating costs. we rely on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically relied on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. an economic downturn or uncertainty, market turmoil, changes in tax policy, challenges faced by financial institutions, changes in our credit ratings, or a change in investor sentiment toward us or the utilities industry generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt. reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows. refer to note 14 , long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. in addition, if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. we have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below our projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. the majority of our revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the revenues generated by us are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. our financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental and federal pipeline safety laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, we may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes us to the risk that certain infrastructure investments may not be recoverable and may affect results of our growth strategy and financial position. failure to adapt to advances in technology could make us less competitive. a key element of our business model is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. research and development activities are ongoing for new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, distributed generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. advances in technology or changes in laws or regulations could reduce the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation. this could cause power sales to decline and the value of our generating facilities to decline. in addition, a failure by us to effectively adapt to changes in technology could harm our ability to remain competitive in the marketplace for our products, services and processes. we are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception. as a utility company, we are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of our services, the speed with which we are able to respond effectively to electric outages, natural gas leaks and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events, as well as our own or third parties' actions or failure to act. we are also subject to adverse publicity related to perceived environmental impacts. if customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, this could result in less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight, increased litigation and negative public perception. the imposition of any of the foregoing could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. our businesses are regulated under numerous environmental laws. the cost of compliance with these laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant. liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and rules that regulate, among other things, air emissions, water usage and discharges, and waste products such as coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations require us to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at many of our facilities. these expenditures are significant, and we expect that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or are found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us and injunctions to remedy the failure or harm. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to change environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional laws and regulations may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers through regulated rates and could, therefore, impact our financial position, financial results and cash flow. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of our facilities. an area of significant uncertainty and risk are the laws concerning emission of ghg. while we continue to reduce ghg emissions through electric generation with lower carbon intensity, priority pipeline replacement, energy efficiency, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions are an expected aspect of the electric and natural gas business. revised or additional future ghg legislation and/or regulation related to the generation of electricity or the extraction, production, distribution and end use of natural gas could materially impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for environmental capital projects, remediation of past harm, or the costs of operating pollution reduction strategies or equipment can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect our financial position, financial results and cash flows. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . a significant portion of the gas and electricity we sell is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting our financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence. therefore, prevailing economic conditions may affect our financial results. our business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout our service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. the implementation of nipsco's electric generation strategy, including the retirement of its coal generation units, may not achieve intended results. on november 1, 2016, nipsco submitted its integrated resource plan with the iurc setting forth its short- and long-term electric generation plans in an effort to maintain affordability while providing reliable, flexible and cleaner sources of power. however, there are inherent risks and uncertainties, including changes in market conditions, environmental regulations, commodity costs and customer expectations, which may impede nipsco's ability to achieve these intended results. in addition, the integrated resource plan included an intention to retire the bailly coal generation units (units 7 and 8) as soon as mid-2018 and two units (units 17 and 18) at the r.m. schahfer generating station by the end of 2023. the miso subsequently approved nipsco's plan to retire the two bailly coal generation units by may 31, 2018. on february 1, 2018, nipsco commenced a four-month outage of bailly generating station unit 8 to begin work on converting the unit to a synchronous condenser (a piece of equipment designed to maintain voltage to ensure continued reliability on the transmission system). nipsco expects to complete the retirement of units 7 and 8 by may 31, 2018. nipsco's electric generation strategy could require significant future capital expenditures, operating costs and charges to earnings that may negatively impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands may have a negative impact on our financial results. our electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and our gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas we deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. from time to time, we have used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. we rely on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in operations. however, while we have historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. in addition, we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our gas and electric services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be required to procure additional or alternative electricity and/or natural gas supplies at then-current market rates, which, if disallowed, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. our extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. we monitor our credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of our banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and to traditional 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties. we have significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings and negatively impact our compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. in accordance with gaap, we test goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we would be required to record a charge in our financial statements for the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. we are subject to a financial covenant under our five-year revolving credit facility, which requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2017, the ratio was 67.6% . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business. legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. for example, on december 22, 2017, president trump signed into law the tcja, which includes numerous provisions that will affect businesses, including changes to u.s. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, and deductions and credits. the outcome of regulatory proceedings regarding the extent to which the effect of reduced corporate tax rate will be shared with customers and the time period over which it will be shared could significantly impact future earnings and cash flows. separately, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect our financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. distribution of natural gas, and the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity involve numerous risks that may result in incidents and other operating risks and costs. our gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as gas leaks, downed power lines, other incidents, third-party damages, large scale outages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for us. the location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such events. these activities may subject us to litigation or administrative proceedings from time to time, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, or be resolved on unfavorable terms. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we have risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and unscheduled outages despite efforts by us to properly maintain or upgrade these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in gas leaks and other incidents and in our inability to meet firm service obligations, which could adversely impact revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact our financial results. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . the impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. we have experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that damage the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the cost we incur in providing our products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate. a cyber-attack on any of our or certain third-party computer systems upon which we rely may adversely affect our ability to operate. we are reliant on technology to run our business, which is dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of our business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of our gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face ( e.g. , malware, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, electric grid infrastructure, and natural gas infrastructure. increasing large-scale corporate attacks in conjunction with more sophisticated threats continue to challenge power and utility companies. any failure of our computer systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could materially disrupt our ability to operate our business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to our reputation. additionally, our information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources with the apparent aim to breach our cyber-defenses. although we attempt to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and works through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess our countermeasures, a security breach of our information systems could (i) impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact our compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject us to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to our customers or employees, and/or (iii) impact our ability to manage our businesses. our capital projects and programs subject us to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. we are engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, as well as the construction of new transmission facilities. as we undertake these projects and programs, we may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, we may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. we also may not receive the anticipated increases in revenue and cash flows resulting from such projects and programs until after their completion. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our operations. we conduct our operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on our infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in our systems not previously known to us or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. further, adverse weather may affect our ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions. 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us due to market, economic, employment and other conditions. failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, our results of operations could be adversely affected. we are a holding company and are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our common stock. we are a holding company and conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. accordingly, our ability to meet our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to us, our ability to service our debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. the separation may result in significant tax liabilities. the separation was conditioned on the receipt by us of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of cpg shares to our stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under section 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code. even though we have received such an opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. both nisource and our stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable. if we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment. in order to execute on our sustainable growth strategy and enhance our culture of ongoing continuous improvement, we must effectively manage the complexity and frequency of new initiatives and organizational changes. if we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes as needed to execute our strategy in this increasingly dynamic and competitive business and regulatory environment, our financial condition, results of operations and relationships with our business partners, regulators, customers and shareholders may be negatively impacted. we outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations. utilities rely on extensive networks of business partners and suppliers to support critical enterprise capabilities across their organizations. we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including construction services, information technology, materials, fleet, environmental, operational services and other areas. outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to inferior service quality or substandard deliverables, which may result in non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards) or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations. if any difficulties in the operation of these systems were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, could be affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms similar to those presently available to us. in addition, our insurance may not be sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we may be subject. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. 15 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 40 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors n i ource i nc . our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition. our businesses are capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. we had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,132.6 million outstanding as of december 31, 2018 . our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which we operate; lead parties with whom we do business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for us to transact such business; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit our ability to execute on our growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund our substantial infrastructure investment program. some of our debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. a drop in our credit ratings could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. the credit rating agencies periodically review our ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure, earnings profile, and, in 2018, the impacts of the tcja and the greater lawrence incident. in march 2018, moody's affirmed our senior unsecured rating of baa2 and our commercial paper rating of p-2, with stable outlooks. moody's also affirmed nipsco's baa1 rating and columbia of massachusetts's baa2 rating, with stable outlooks. in may 2018, standard &amp; poor's affirmed our bbb+ senior unsecured ratings and affirmed our commercial paper rating of a-2, but changed the outlook on each rating from stable to negative in september 2018 as a result of potential impacts of the greater lawrence incident. in june 2018, fitch affirmed our and nipsco's long-term issuer default ratings of bbb and upgraded the commercial paper rating to f2 from f3, with stable outlooks. a credit rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities, and may be subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning rating organization. we are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings, however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive. a negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners, who may be less willing to extend credit or offer us similarly favorable terms as secured in the past under such circumstances. certain of our subsidiaries have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions if the credit ratings of our or certain of our subsidiaries are dropped below investment grade. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of gas or power. as of december 31, 2018, the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $53.8 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. if our or certain of our subsidiaries credit ratings were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require additional credit support as described above. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. losing investment grade credit ratings may also result in more restrictive covenants 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . and reduced flexibility on repayment terms in debt issuances, lower share price and greater stockholder dilution from common equity issuances, in addition to reputational damage within the investment community. we may not be able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments. business or regulatory conditions may result in us not being able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. our customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results. utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed. natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and environmentally attractive fuel. certain groups may continue to oppose natural gas delivery and infrastructure investments because of perceived environmental impacts associated with the natural gas supply chain and end use. energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage, policies favoring electric heat over gas heat and other factors may reduce energy demand. any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. while the national economy is experiencing modest growth, we cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether it will be sustained. deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in our operating jurisdictions could adversely impact our ability to maintain or grow our customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce revenue growth and increase operating costs. in addition, a rising interest rate environment may lead to higher borrowing costs, which may adversely impact reported earnings, cost of capital and capital holdings. rising interest rates and negative market or company events may also result in a decrease in the price of our shares of common stock. we rely on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically relied on long-term debt and on the issuance of equity securities to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. an economic downturn or uncertainty, market turmoil, changes in tax policy, challenges faced by financial institutions, changes in our credit ratings, or a change in investor sentiment toward us or the utilities industry generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt. reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows. refer to note 14 , long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. we have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below our projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. in addition, lower asset returns result in increased expenses. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . the majority of our revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the revenues generated by us are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. our financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. in addition to our ongoing regulatory proceedings, the recovery of the greater lawrence pipeline replacement capital investment will be addressed in a future regulatory proceeding as discussed in note 18 , "other commitments and contingencies - e. other matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain. additionally, the costs of complying with current and future changes in environmental and federal pipeline safety laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will also be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, we may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes us to the risk that certain infrastructure investments may not be recoverable and may affect results of our growth strategy and financial position. failure to adapt to advances in technology and manage the related costs could make us less competitive and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. a key element of our business model is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. we continue to research, plan for, and implement new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, distributed generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. advances in technology and changes in laws or regulations are reducing the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost effective distributed generation. this could cause power sales to decline and the value of our generating facilities to decline. in addition, customers are increasingly expecting enhanced communications regarding their electric and natural gas services, which, in some cases, may involve additional investments in technology. new technologies may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive and may result in the obsolescence of certain of our operating assets. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. a failure by us to effectively adapt to changes in technology and manage the related costs could harm our ability to remain competitive in the marketplace for our products, services and processes and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the greater lawrence incident has had and may have an additional material adverse impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the greater lawrence incident, we have incurred and will incur various costs and expenses as set forth in note 18 "other commitments and contingencies - c. legal proceedings," and " - e. other matters" in the notes to consolidated financial statements. as more information becomes known, including information resulting from the ntsb investigation, management's estimates and assumptions regarding the costs and expenses to be incurred and the financial impact of the greater lawrence incident may change. a change in management's estimates or assumptions could result in an adjustment that would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the period in which such change occurred. in addition, we are unable to predict the timing and amount of insurance recoveries. total expenses related to the incident have exceeded the total amount of liability insurance coverage available under our policies. in addition, there may be certain types of damages, expenses or claimed costs, such as fines or penalties, that may be excluded under the policies. losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. we may also incur additional costs associated with the greater lawrence incident, beyond the amount currently anticipated, in connection with investigations by regulators, including the ntsb and massachusetts dpu, as well as civil litigations. further, state or federal legislation may be enacted that would require us to incur additional costs by mandating various changes, including changes to our operating practice standards for natural gas distribution operations and safety. if we are unable to recover the capital cost of the gas pipeline replacement in the impacted area or we incur a material amount of other costs that we are unable to recover through rates or offset through operational or other cost savings, our 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. further, if it is determined that we did not comply with applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, or orders in connection with the greater lawrence incident or in connection with the operations or maintenance of our natural gas system, and we are ordered to pay a material amount in customer refunds, penalties, or other amounts, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks. our gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, including, but not limited to, gas leaks and over-pressurization, downed power lines, damage to our infrastructure by third parties, outages, environmental spills, mechanical problems and other incidents, which could cause substantial financial losses, as demonstrated in part by the greater lawrence incident. in addition, these hazards and risks have resulted and may in the future result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and/or the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for us. the location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such incidents. as with the greater lawrence incident, certain incidents have subjected and may in the future subject us to litigation or administrative or other legal proceedings from time to time, both civil and criminal, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, be resolved on unfavorable terms, and require us to incur significant operational expenses. the occurrence of incidents has in certain instances adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our reputation, cash flows, financial position and/or results of operations. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all, and the insurance coverage we do obtain may not provide protection against all significant losses. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, are affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at all or at rates or terms acceptable to us. we expect the premiums we pay for our insurance coverage to significantly increase as a result of the greater lawrence incident and market conditions. in addition, our insurance is not sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we are subject. for example, total expenses related to the greater lawrence incident have exceeded the total amount of liability coverage available under our policies. also, certain types of damages, expenses or claimed costs, such as fines and penalties, may be excluded under the policies. in addition, insurers providing liability insurance to us may raise defenses to coverage under the terms and conditions of the respective insurance policies that could result in a denial of coverage or limit the amount of insurance proceeds available to us. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. for more information regarding our insurance programs in the context of the greater lawrence incident, see note 18 , "other commitments and contingencies - c. legal proceedings," and " - e. other matters" in the notes to condensed consolidated financial statements. the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related to our business operations, including those related to the greater lawrence incident, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation in connection with our business operations, including the greater lawrence incident, the most significant of which are summarized in note 18 , other commitments and contingencies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. our insurance is not expected to cover all costs and expenses we may incur relating to the greater lawrence incident and may not fully cover other incidents that may occur in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the outcomes of such matters, there can be no assurance that the resolution of any particular claim or proceeding would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. if one or more of such matters were decided against us, the effects could be material to our results of operations in the period in which we would be required to record or adjust the related liability and could also be material to our cash flows in the periods that we would be required to pay such liability. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . we are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception. as a utility company, we are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of our services, the speed with which we are able to respond effectively to electric outages, natural gas leaks or events and related accidents and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events, as well as our own or third parties' actions or failure to act. we are also subject to adverse publicity related to perceived environmental impacts. if customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, this could result in less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight, increased litigation and negative public perception. recently, we have been subject to adverse publicity as a result of the greater lawrence incident, and it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of this adverse publicity. the foregoing may have continuing adverse effects on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. our businesses are regulated under numerous environmental laws. the cost of compliance with these laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant. liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and rules that regulate, among other things, air emissions, water usage and discharges, and waste products such as coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations require us to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at many of our facilities. these expenditures are significant, and we expect that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or are found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond our control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us and injunctions to remedy the failure or harm. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to change environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to us. revised or additional laws and regulations may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers through regulated rates and could, therefore, impact our financial position, financial results and cash flow. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of our facilities. an area of significant uncertainty and risk are the laws concerning emission of ghg. while we continue to reduce ghg emissions through priority pipeline replacement, energy efficiency, leak detection, and other programs, and expect to further reduce ghg emissions through increased use of renewable energy, ghg emissions are currently an expected aspect of the electric and natural gas business. revised or additional future ghg legislation and/or regulation related to the generation of electricity or the extraction, production, distribution, transmission, storage and end use of natural gas could materially impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for environmental capital projects, remediation of past environmental harm, or pollution reduction strategies and equipment can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect our financial position, financial results and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity we sell is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting our financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence. therefore, prevailing economic conditions affecting the demand of our customers may in turn affect our financial results. our business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . business operations throughout our service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. the implementation of nipsco's electric generation strategy, including the retirement of its coal generation units, may not achieve intended results. on october 31, 2018, nipsco submitted its 2018 integrated resource plan with the iurc setting forth its short- and long-term electric generation plans in an effort to maintain affordability while providing reliable, flexible and cleaner sources of power. the plan evaluated demand-side and supply-side resource alternatives to reliably and cost-effectively meet nipsco customers' future energy requirements over the ensuing 20 years. the preferred option within the integrated resource plan sets forth a schedule to retire r.m. schahfer generating station (units 14, 15, 17, and 18) by 2023 and michigan city generating station (unit 12) by 2028. the current replacement plan includes renewable sources of energy, including wind, solar, and battery storage. however, there are inherent risks and uncertainties, including changes in market conditions, regulatory approvals, environmental regulations, commodity costs and customer expectations, which may impede nipsco's ability to achieve these intended results. nipsco's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to successfully implement its long-term electric generation plans, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. nipsco's electric generation strategy could require significant future capital expenditures, operating costs and charges to earnings that may negatively impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands may have a negative impact on our financial results. our electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and our gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas we deliver to our customers. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. from time to time, we have also used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. we rely on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in providing service. however, while we have historically been successful in the recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. in addition, we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our gas and electric services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be required to procure additional or alternative electricity and/or natural gas supplies at then-current market rates, which, if recovery of related costs is disallowed, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. our extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. we monitor our credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of our banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and to traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties. we have significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings and negatively impact our compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. in accordance with gaap, we test goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill also is tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we have tested and will continue to monitor the goodwill of columbia of massachusetts for impairment in connection with the greater lawrence incident. to date, 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . these tests do not indicate the need for an impairment of the goodwill balance. we would be required to record a charge in our financial statements for the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. we are subject to a financial covenant under our five-year revolving credit facility, which requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2018, the ratio was 61.4% . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business. legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. for example, the tcja includes numerous provisions that affect businesses, including changes to u.s. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, and deductions and credits. the outcome of regulatory proceedings regarding the extent to which the effect of reduced corporate tax rate will be shared with customers and the time period over which it will be shared could significantly impact future earnings and cash flows. separately, a challenge by a taxing authority, our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect our financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we have risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs, or unscheduled outages, despite efforts by us to properly maintain or upgrade these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. in addition, the nature of the information available on aging infrastructure assets may make inspections, maintenance, upgrading and replacement of the assets particularly challenging. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in gas leaks and other incidents and in our inability to meet firm service obligations, which could adversely impact revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact our financial results. the impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, accidents or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack, accident or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. we have experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that damage the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the costs we incur in providing our products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . a cyber-attack on any of our or certain third-party computer systems upon which we rely may adversely affect our ability to operate. we are reliant on technology to run our business, which is dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of our business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of our gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face ( e.g. , malware, unauthorized access attempts, phishing attacks, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, electric grid infrastructure, and natural gas infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. increasing large-scale corporate attacks in conjunction with more sophisticated threats continue to challenge power and utility companies. any failure of our computer systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could materially disrupt our ability to operate our business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to our reputation. additionally, our information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources, including foreign sources, with the apparent aim to breach our cyber-defenses. although we attempt to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and work through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess our countermeasures, a security breach of our information systems could (i) impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact our compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject us to reputational and other harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to our customers or employees, (iii) impact our ability to manage our businesses, and/or (iv) subject us to legal and regulatory proceedings and claims from third parties, in addition to remediation costs, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. our capital projects and programs subject us to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks, and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. we are engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, the construction of new transmission facilities, and new projects related to renewable energy. as we undertake these projects and programs, we may be unable to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, we may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. our existing and planned capital projects require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, and local governmental agencies. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, we may be forced to incur additional costs, or we may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in a project. we also may not receive the anticipated increases in revenue and cash flows resulting from such projects and programs until after their completion to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our operations. we conduct our operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on our infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in our systems not previously known to us or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. further, adverse weather may affect our ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions. 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could harm our results of operations. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us due to market, economic, employment and other conditions. failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, safety, service reliability, customer satisfaction and our results of operations could be adversely affected. some of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on an operating company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are a holding company and are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our stock. we are a holding company and conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. accordingly, our ability to meet our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock and preferred stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to us, our ability to service our debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. the separation may result in significant tax liabilities. the separation, which was completed in july 2015, was conditioned on the receipt by us of a legal opinion to the effect that the distribution of cpg shares to our stockholders is expected to qualify as tax-free under section 355 of the u.s. internal revenue code (the "internal revenue code"). even though we have received such an opinion, the irs could determine on audit that the distribution is taxable. both us and our stockholders could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities if taxing authorities conclude the distribution is taxable. if we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment. in order to execute on our sustainable growth strategy and enhance our culture of ongoing continuous improvement, we must effectively manage the complexity and frequency of new initiatives and organizational changes. if we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes as needed to execute our strategy in this increasingly dynamic and competitive business and regulatory environment, our financial condition, results of operations and relationships with our business partners, regulators, customers and stockholders may be negatively impacted. we outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations. utilities rely on extensive networks of business partners and suppliers to support critical enterprise capabilities across their organizations. global metrics indicate that deliveries from suppliers are slowing and that labor shortages are occurring in the energy sector. we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including construction services, information technology, materials, fleet, environmental, operational services and other areas. outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to inferior service quality or substandard deliverables, which may result in non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards), interruption of service or accidents, or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations. if any difficulties in the operations of these third-party suppliers and service providers, including their systems, were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees. changes in the method for determining libor and the potential replacement of the libor benchmark interest rate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . some of our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit agreement, bears interest at a variable rate based on libor. from time to time, we also enter into hedging instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the libor benchmark interest rate. in addition, these hedging instruments, as well as hedging instruments that our subsidiaries use for hedging natural gas price and basis risk, rely on libor-based rates to calculate interest accrued on certain payments that may be required to be made under these agreements, such as late payments or interest accrued if any cash collateral should be held by a counterparty. in july 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority ( fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the united kingdom or elsewhere. in the united states, efforts to identify a set of alternative u.s. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the alternative reference rates committee of the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york. the alternative reference rates committee has proposed the secured overnight financing rate ("sofr") as its recommended alternative to libor, and the federal reserve bank of new york began publishing sofr rates in april 2018. sofr is intended to be a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight that is collateralized by u.s. treasury securities. any changes announced by the fca, other regulators or any other successor governance or oversight body, or future changes adopted by such body, in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported libor rates. if that were to occur, the level of interest payments we incur may change. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations if libor is not reported, which include, without limitation, requesting certain rates from major reference banks in london or new york, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with, the interest rates or payments that would have been made on our obligations if a libor-based rate was available in its current form. 18 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors n i ource i nc . our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including those described below, that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the trading price of our common stock. we have substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect our financial condition. our business is capital intensive and we rely significantly on long-term debt to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. we had total consolidated indebtedness of $9,642.8 million outstanding as of december 31, 2019 . our substantial indebtedness could have important consequences. for example, it could: limit our ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which we operate; lead parties with whom we do business to require additional credit support, such as letters of credit, in order for us to transact such business; place us at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit our ability to execute on our growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund our substantial infrastructure investment program. some of our debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. our failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. a drop in our credit ratings could adversely impact our cash flows, results of operation, financial condition and liquidity. the availability and cost of credit for our businesses may be greatly affected by credit ratings. the credit rating agencies periodically review our ratings, taking into account factors such as our capital structure, earnings profile, and, in 2018 and 2019, the impacts of the tcja and the greater lawrence incident. we are committed to maintaining investment grade credit ratings; however, there is no assurance we will be able to do so in the future. our credit ratings could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in its judgment, the circumstances warrant. any negative rating action could adversely affect our ability to access capital at rates and on terms that are attractive. a negative rating action could also adversely impact our business relationships with suppliers and operating partners, who may be less willing to extend credit or offer us similarly favorable terms as secured in the past under such circumstances. certain of our subsidiaries have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral in the form of cash, a letter of credit or other forms of security for new and existing transactions if the credit ratings of our or certain of our subsidiaries are dropped below investment grade. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of gas or power. as of december 31, 2019 , the collateral requirement that would be required in the event of a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $72.1 million . in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. if our or certain of our subsidiaries' credit ratings were downgraded, especially below investment grade, financing costs and the principal amount of borrowings would likely increase due to the additional risk of our debt and because certain counterparties may require additional credit support as described above. such amounts may be material and could adversely affect our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. losing investment grade credit ratings may also result in more restrictive covenants and reduced flexibility on repayment terms in debt issuances, lower share price and greater stockholder dilution from common equity issuances, in addition to reputational damage within the investment community. we may not be able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including utility infrastructure investments. business or regulatory conditions may result in us not being able to execute our business plan or growth strategy, including identified, planned and other utility infrastructure investments. our customer and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . results. utility infrastructure investments may not materialize, may cease to be achievable or economically viable and may not be successfully completed. natural gas may cease to be viewed as an economically and environmentally attractive fuel. certain groups and governmental entities may continue to oppose natural gas delivery and infrastructure investments because of perceived environmental impacts associated with the natural gas supply chain and end use. energy conservation, energy efficiency, distributed generation, energy storage, policies favoring electric heat over gas heat and other factors may reduce demand for natural gas and energy. any of these developments could adversely affect our results of operations and growth prospects. even if our business plan and growth strategy are executed, there is still risk of, among other things, human error in maintenance, installation or operations, shortages or delays in obtaining equipment, and performance below expected levels (in addition to the other risks discussed in this section). adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. while the national economy is experiencing modest growth, we cannot predict how robust future growth will be or whether it will be sustained. deteriorating or sluggish economic conditions in our operating jurisdictions could adversely impact our ability to maintain or grow our customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce revenue growth and increase operating costs. in addition, a rising interest rate environment may lead to higher borrowing costs, which may adversely impact reported earnings, cost of capital and capital holdings. rising interest rates and negative market or company events may also result in a decrease in the price of our shares of common stock. we rely on access to the capital markets to finance our liquidity and long-term capital requirements, including expenditures for our utility infrastructure and to comply with future regulatory requirements, to the extent not satisfied by the cash flow generated by our operations. we have historically relied on long-term debt and on the issuance of equity securities to fund a portion of our capital expenditures and repay outstanding debt, and on short-term borrowings to fund a portion of day-to-day business operations. successful implementation of our long-term business strategies, including capital investment, is dependent upon our ability to access the capital and credit markets, including the banking and commercial paper markets, on competitive terms and rates. an economic downturn or uncertainty, market turmoil, changes in tax policy, challenges faced by financial institutions, changes in our credit ratings, or a change in investor sentiment toward us or the utilities industry generally could adversely affect our ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt. reduced access to capital markets and/or increased borrowing costs could reduce future net income and cash flows. refer to note 14 , long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. if any of these risks or uncertainties limit our access to the credit and capital markets or significantly increase our cost of capital, it could limit our ability to implement, or increase the costs of implementing, our business plan, which, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, financial condition and liquidity. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. we have significant obligations in these areas and hold significant assets in these trusts as noted in note 11 , "pension and other postretirement benefits," in the notes to consolidated financial statements. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below our projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. in addition, lower asset returns result in increased expenses. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension or other postretirement benefit plan expense could negatively impact our results of operations and financial position. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . the majority of our revenues are subject to economic regulation and are exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of our revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the revenues generated by us are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. our financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs and investments. in addition to our ongoing regulatory proceedings, the recovery of the greater lawrence pipeline replacement capital investment will be addressed in a future regulatory proceeding as discussed in note 19 , "other commitments and contingencies - e. other matters in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the outcomes of these proceedings are uncertain, potentially lengthy and could be influenced by many factors, some of which may be outside of our control, including the cost of providing service, the necessity of expenditures, the quality of service, regulatory interpretations, customer intervention, economic conditions and the political environment. further, the rate orders are subject to appeal, which creates additional uncertainty as to the rates that will ultimately be allowed to be charged for services. additionally, the costs of complying with current and future changes in environmental and federal pipeline safety laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will also be contingent on regulatory approval. failure to adapt to advances in technology and manage the related costs could make us less competitive and negatively impact our results of operations and financial condition. a key element of our business model is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale and produces power at a competitive cost. we continue to research, plan for, and implement new technologies that produce power or reduce power consumption. these technologies include renewable energy, distributed generation, energy storage, and energy efficiency. advances in technology and changes in laws or regulations (including subsidization) are reducing the cost of these or other alternative methods of producing power to a level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production or result in smaller-scale, more fuel efficient, and/or more cost-effective distributed generation. this could cause power sales to decline and the value of our generating facilities to decline. new technologies may require us to make significant expenditures to remain competitive and may result in the obsolescence of certain operating assets. in addition, customers are increasingly expecting enhanced communications regarding their electric and natural gas services, which, in some cases, may involve additional investments in technology. we also rely on technology to adequately maintain key business records. our future success will depend, in part, on our ability to anticipate and successfully adapt to technological changes, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. a failure by us to effectively adapt to changes in technology and manage the related costs could harm our ability to remain competitive in the marketplace for our products, services and processes and could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations and financial condition. the greater lawrence incident has materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. in connection with the greater lawrence incident, we have incurred and will incur various costs and expenses as set forth in note 6, "goodwill and other intangible assets," note 19 , "other commitments and contingencies - c. legal proceedings," and - e. other matters" in the notes to consolidated financial statements. we are subject to inquiries and investigations by government authorities and regulatory agencies regarding the greater lawrence incident, including the massachusetts dpu and the massachusetts attorney general's office. we are cooperating with all inquiries and investigations. in addition, on february 26, 2020, the company and columbia of massachusetts entered into agreements with the u.s. attorney's office to resolve the u.s. attorney's office's investigation relating to the greater lawrence incident, as described further below. as more information becomes known, management's estimates and assumptions regarding the costs and expenses to be incurred and the financial impact of the greater lawrence incident may change. a change in management's estimates or assumptions could result in an adjustment that would have a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows during the period in which such change occurred. while we have recovered the full amount of our liability insurance coverage available under our policies, total expenses related to the incident have exceeded such amount. expenses in excess of our liability insurance coverage have materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows and financial position. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . we may also incur additional costs associated with the greater lawrence incident, beyond the amount currently anticipated, including in connection with investigations by regulators as well as civil litigation. further, state or federal legislation may be enacted that would require us to incur additional costs by mandating various changes, including changes to our operating practice standards for natural gas distribution operations and safety. if we are unable to recover the capital cost of the gas pipeline replacement in the impacted area or we incur a material amount of other costs that we are unable to recover through rates or offset through operational or other cost savings, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. further, if it is determined in other matters that we did not comply with applicable statutes, regulations, rules, tariffs, or orders in connection with the greater lawrence incident or in connection with the operations or maintenance of our natural gas system, and we are ordered to pay additional amounts in customer refunds, penalties, or other amounts, our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows could be materially and adversely affected. our settlement with the u.s. attorney's office in respect of federal charges in connection with the greater lawrence incident may expose us to further penalties, liabilities and private litigation, and may impact our operations. on february 26, 2020, the company entered into a dpa and columbia of massachusetts entered into a plea agreement with the u.s. attorney's office to resolve the u.s. attorney's office's investigation relating to the greater lawrence incident. columbia of massachusetts' plea agreement with the u.s. attorney's office is subject to approval by the united states district court for the district of massachusetts (the "court"). if columbia of massachusetts' guilty plea is not accepted by the court or is withdrawn for any reason, the u.s. attorney's office may, at its sole option, render the dpa null and void. see note 19, other commitments and contingencies - c. legal proceedings in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the agreements impose various compliance and remedial obligations on the company and columbia of massachusetts. failure to comply with the terms of these agreements could result in further enforcement action by the u.s. attorney's office, expose the company and columbia of massachusetts to penalties, financial or otherwise, and subjects the company to further private litigation, each of which could impact our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business. the closing of the sale of the massachusetts business is subject to receipt of clearance and approval from various governmental entities and other closing conditions that may not be satisfied or waived, and, in order to receive such clearance, consent or approval, governmental entities may impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions that eversource is not obligated to accept in order to complete the transaction. on february 26, 2020, nisource, columbia of massachusetts and eversource entered into the asset purchase agreement providing for the sale of the massachusetts business to eversource. the asset purchase agreement provides for various closing conditions, including (a) the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, (b) the receipt of the approval of the massachusetts dpu (the mdpu approval ) and (c) the final resolution or termination of all pending actions, claims and proceedings against seller and its affiliates under the jurisdiction of the massachusetts dpu and all future, actions, claims and proceedings against seller and its affiliates relating to the greater lawrence incident under the jurisdiction of the massachusetts dpu. the satisfaction of many of the closing conditions is beyond our control. we may not receive the required clearance and approvals for the transaction or the required resolution with the massachusetts dpu, or we may not receive them in a timely manner. in addition, governmental entities could impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions as conditions for their approvals and as conditions to resolve certain proceedings, and these may include substantial payments by us. moreover, eversource is not required to agree to any conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions to obtain required clearance and approvals if such conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions would reasonably be expected to constitute a burdensome condition as defined in the asset purchase agreement. there can be no assurance that regulators will not seek to impose conditions, terms, obligations or restrictions that would constitute burdensome conditions. if the closing conditions are not satisfied or there is a substantial delay in obtaining the required clearance and approvals, or otherwise satisfying the closing conditions, the sale of the massachusetts business may not be completed, and we may lose some or all of the intended benefits of the sale. the sale of the massachusetts business poses risks and challenges that could negatively impact our business, and we may not realize the expected benefits of the sale of the massachusetts business. the sale of the massachusetts business involves separation or carve-out activities and costs and possible disputes with eversource. following the sale, we may have continued financial liabilities with respect to the business conducted by columbia of massachusetts, 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . as we will be required to retain responsibility for, and indemnify eversource against, certain liabilities, including liabilities for any fines arising out of the greater lawrence incident and liabilities of columbia of massachusetts or its affiliates pursuant to civil claims for injury of persons or damage to property to the extent such injury or damage occurs prior to the closing in connection with columbia of massachusetts' business. it may also be difficult to determine whether a claim from a third party is our responsibility, and we may expend substantial resources trying to determine whether we or eversource has responsibility for the claim. if we do not realize the expected benefits of the sale of the massachusetts business, our consolidated financial condition, results of operations and cash flows could be negatively impacted. the sale of the massachusetts business may result in a dilutive impact to our future earnings if we are unable to offset the dilutive impact from the loss of revenue associated with the sale, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition. the failure to complete the transactions contemplated by the asset purchase agreement within the expected time frame or at all could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations and the price of our common stock. if the sale of the massachusetts business is not completed by october 26, 2020 (subject to up to two automatic 45-day extensions under certain circumstances related to obtaining required regulatory approvals and resolution with the massachusetts dpu), we or eversource may choose not to proceed with the transaction. completion of the transaction is subject to risks, including the risks that approval of the transaction by governmental entities will not be obtained or that certain other closing conditions will not be satisfied. a failure to complete the transaction may result in negative publicity and a negative impression of us in the investment community. moreover, under the terms of the settlement with the u.s. attorney's office, we will be obligated to use reasonable best efforts to sell columbia of massachusetts' business, and there is no assurance that we will be able to sell such business to a third party on as favorable terms, if at all. the occurrence of any of these events, individually or in combination, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition or the trading price of our common stock. our gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, including potential public safety risks. our gas distribution activities, as well as generation, transmission, and distribution of electricity, involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, including, but not limited to, gas leaks and over-pressurization, downed power lines, damage to our infrastructure by third parties, outages, environmental spills, mechanical problems and other incidents, which could cause substantial financial losses, as demonstrated in part by the greater lawrence incident. in addition, these hazards and risks have resulted and may in the future result in serious injury or loss of life to employees and/or the general public, significant damage to property, environmental pollution, impairment of our operations, adverse regulatory rulings and reputational harm, which in turn could lead to substantial losses for us. the location of pipeline facilities, or generation, transmission, substation and distribution facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from such incidents. as with the greater lawrence incident, certain incidents have subjected and may in the future subject us to litigation or administrative or other legal proceedings from time to time, both civil and criminal, which could result in substantial monetary judgments, fines, or penalties against us, be resolved on unfavorable terms, and require us to incur significant operational expenses. the occurrence of incidents has in certain instances adversely affected and could in the future adversely affect our reputation, cash flows, financial position and/or results of operations. we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. we may be unable to obtain insurance on acceptable terms or at all. our liability insurance coverage did not provide protection against all significant losses as a result of the greater lawrence incident and may not provide protection against all significant losses in the future. our ability to obtain insurance, as well as the cost and coverage of such insurance, are affected by developments affecting our business; international, national, state, or local events; and the financial condition of insurers. the insurance market is experiencing a hardening environment due to reductions in commercial suppliers and the capacity they are willing to issue, increases in overall demand for capacity, and a prevalence of severe losses. nisource has been particularly affected by the current market conditions. we have not been able to obtain liability insurance coverage at previously procured limits at rates that are acceptable to us. insurance coverage may not continue to be available at limits, rates or terms acceptable to us. the premiums we pay for our insurance coverage have significantly increased as a result of market conditions and the accumulated loss ratio over the history of nisource operations, and we expect that they will continue to increase as a result of market conditions. in addition, our insurance is not sufficient or effective under all circumstances and against all hazards or liabilities to which we are subject. for example, total expenses related to the greater lawrence incident have exceeded the total amount of liability coverage available under our policies. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . also, certain types of damages, expenses or claimed costs, such as fines and penalties, may be excluded under the policies. in addition, insurers providing insurance to us may raise defenses to coverage under the terms and conditions of the respective insurance policies that could result in a denial of coverage or limit the amount of insurance proceeds available to us. any losses for which we are not fully insured or that are not covered by insurance at all could materially adversely affect our results of operations, cash flows, and financial position. for example, expenses related to the greater lawrence incident that we are unable to recover from liability or property insurance have materially adversely affected and may continue to materially adversely affect our results of operations. for more information regarding our insurance programs in the context of the greater lawrence incident, see note 19 , "other commitments and contingencies - c. legal proceedings," and " - e. other matters" in the notes to consolidated financial statements. the outcome of legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation related to our business operations, including those related to the greater lawrence incident, may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. we are involved in legal and regulatory proceedings, investigations, inquiries, claims and litigation in connection with our business operations, including the greater lawrence incident, the most significant of which are summarized in note 19 , other commitments and contingencies in the notes to consolidated financial statements. our insurance does not cover all costs and expenses that we have incurred and that we may incur in the future relating to the greater lawrence incident, and may not fully cover other incidents that may occur in the future. due to the inherent uncertainty of the outcomes of such matters, there can be no assurance that the resolution of any particular claim or proceeding would not have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or liquidity. certain matters in connection with the greater lawrence incident have had or may have a material impact as described in note 19, "other commitments and contingencies" in the notes to consolidated financial statements. if one or more of such additional or other matters were decided against us, the effects could be material to our results of operations in the period in which we would be required to record or adjust the related liability and could also be material to our cash flows in the periods that we would be required to pay such liability. we are exposed to significant reputational risks, which make us vulnerable to a loss of cost recovery, increased litigation and negative public perception. as a utility company, we are subject to adverse publicity focused on the reliability of our services, the speed with which we are able to respond effectively to electric outages, natural gas leaks or events and related accidents and similar interruptions caused by storm damage or other unanticipated events, as well as our own or third parties' actions or failure to act. we are also subject to adverse publicity related to actual or perceived environmental impacts. if customers, legislators, or regulators have or develop a negative opinion of us, this could result in less favorable legislative and regulatory outcomes or increased regulatory oversight, increased litigation and negative public perception. the adverse publicity and investigations we experienced as a result of the greater lawrence incident may have an ongoing negative impact on the public's perception of us. it is difficult to predict the ultimate impact of this adverse publicity. the foregoing may have continuing adverse effects on our business, results of operations, cash flow and financial condition. our businesses are subject to various laws, regulations and tariffs. we could be materially adversely affected if we fail to comply with such laws, regulations and tariffs or with any changes in or new interpretations of such laws, regulations and tariffs. our businesses are subject to various laws, regulations and tariffs, including, but not limited to, those relating to natural gas pipeline safety, employee safety, the environment and our energy infrastructure. existing laws, regulations and tariffs may be revised or become subject to new interpretations, and new laws, regulations and tariffs may be adopted or become applicable to us and our operations. in some cases, compliance with new laws, regulations and tariffs increases our costs. if we fail to comply with laws, regulations and tariffs applicable to us or with any changes in or new interpretations of such laws, regulations or tariffs, our financial condition, results of operations, regulatory outcomes and cash flows may be materially adversely affected. our businesses are regulated under numerous environmental laws. the cost of compliance with these laws, and changes to or additions to, or reinterpretations of the laws, could be significant. liability from the failure to comply with existing or changed laws could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. our businesses are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental laws and rules that regulate, among other things, air emissions, water usage and discharges, ghg and waste products such as coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations require us to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and permits at many of our facilities. these expenditures are significant, and we expect that they will continue to 14 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . be significant in the future. furthermore, if we fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or are found to have caused damage to the environment or persons, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against us and injunctions to remedy the failure or harm. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to change environmental regulation of the energy industry may be adopted or become applicable to us, with an increased focus on both coal and natural gas in recent years. revised or additional laws and regulations may result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on our facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers through regulated rates and could, therefore, impact our financial position, financial results and cash flow. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of our facilities. an area of significant uncertainty and risk are the laws concerning emission of ghg. while we continue to reduce ghg emissions through the retirement of coal-fired electric generation, priority pipeline replacement, energy efficiency, leak detection and repair, and other programs, and expect to further reduce ghg emissions through increased use of renewable energy, ghg emissions are currently an expected aspect of the electric and natural gas business. revised or additional future ghg legislation and/or regulation related to the generation of electricity or the extraction, production, distribution, transmission, storage and end use of natural gas could materially impact our gas supply, financial position, financial results and cash flows. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known or anticipated, the original cost estimates for environmental improvements, remediation of past environmental impact, or pollution reduction strategies and equipment can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of impact, the method of improvement, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and requirements established by environmental authorities. changes in costs and the ability to recover under regulatory mechanisms could affect our financial position, financial results and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity we sell is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, fluctuations in weather, gas and electricity commodity costs and economic conditions impact demand of our customers and our operating results. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, is sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting our financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers' usage is sensitive to economic conditions and factors such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence. therefore, prevailing economic conditions affecting the demand of our customers may in turn affect our financial results. our business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout our service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers, such as those in the steel, oil refining, industrial gas and related industries, may be impacted by economic downturns and geographic or technological shifts in production or production methods. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. the implementation of nipsco's electric generation strategy, including the retirement of its coal generation units, may not achieve intended results. on october 31, 2018, nipsco submitted its 2018 integrated resource plan with the iurc setting forth its short- and long-term electric generation plans in an effort to maintain affordability while providing reliable, flexible and cleaner sources of power. the plan evaluated demand-side and supply-side resource alternatives to reliably and cost-effectively meet nipsco customers' future energy requirements over the ensuing 20 years. the preferred option within the integrated resource plan sets forth a schedule to retire r.m. schahfer generating station (units 14, 15, 17, and 18) in 2023 and michigan city generating station (unit 12) in 2028. the current replacement plan includes renewable sources of energy, including wind, solar, and battery storage. as part of this plan, nipsco has iurc approval for the jordan creek ppa for 400 mw, the indiana crossroads bta for 300 mw and the rosewater bta for 100 mw. each is a separate facility and all mw are nameplate capacity. nipsco has filed a notice with the iurc of its intention not to move forward with one of its approved ppas due to the failure to meet a condition precedent in the agreement as a result of local zoning restrictions. 15 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . there are inherent risks and uncertainties in executing the integrated resource plan, including changes in market conditions, regulatory approvals, environmental regulations, commodity costs and customer expectations, which may impede nipsco's ability to achieve the intended results. nipsco's future success will depend, in part, on its ability to successfully implement its long-term electric generation plans, to offer services that meet customer demands and evolving industry standards, and to recover all, or a significant portion of, any unrecovered investment in obsolete assets. nipsco's electric generation strategy could require significant future capital expenditures, operating costs and charges to earnings that may negatively impact our financial position, financial results and cash flows. fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs or an inability to obtain an adequate, reliable and cost-effective fuel supply to meet customer demands may have a negative impact on our financial results. our electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and our gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas we deliver to our customers. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. from time to time, we have also used hedging in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices. we rely on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the commodity costs incurred in providing service. however, while we have historically been successful in the recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. in addition, we depend on electric transmission lines, natural gas pipelines, and other transportation facilities owned and operated by third parties to deliver the electricity and natural gas we sell to wholesale markets, supply natural gas to our gas storage and electric generation facilities, and provide retail energy services to customers. if transportation is disrupted, or if capacity is inadequate, we may be unable to sell and deliver our gas and electric services to some or all of our customers. as a result, we may be required to procure additional or alternative electricity and/or natural gas supplies at then-current market rates, which, if recovery of related costs is disallowed, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, cash flows, results of operations and/or prospects. we are exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. our extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment by our employees and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty's financial condition, credit history and other factors. we monitor our credit risk exposure by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of our banking partners and other counterparties by reference to market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and to traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. adverse economic conditions could result in an increase in defaults by customers, suppliers and counterparties. we have significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. impairments of goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets related to columbia of massachusetts have resulted in significant charges to earnings for the quarter and year ended december 31, 2019. any future impairments of other goodwill could result in a significant charge to earnings in a future period and negatively impact our compliance with certain covenants under financing agreements. in accordance with gaap, we test goodwill for impairment at least annually and review our definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate its fair value might be below its carrying value. goodwill is also tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. we are required to record a charge in our financial statements for a period in which any impairment of our goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our financial statements for the year ended december 31, 2019 , we conducted an impairment analysis for the goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets (franchise rights) related to columbia of massachusetts and concluded that such goodwill and franchise rights were impaired. as a result, we recorded an impairment charge of $204.8 million for such goodwill and an impairment charge of $209.7 million for such franchise rights at december 31, 2019 . for additional information, see note 6 , goodwill and other intangible assets, in the notes to consolidated financial statements. a significant charge in the future could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. we are subject to a financial covenant under our revolving credit facility and term loan agreement, which require us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires us to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2019 , the ratio was 61.7% . 16 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes as well as challenges to tax positions could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where we do business. legislation or regulation which could affect our tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. for example, the tcja includes numerous provisions that affect businesses, including changes to u.s. corporate tax rates, business-related exclusions, and deductions and credits. the outcome of regulatory proceedings regarding the extent to which the effect of a change in corporate tax rate will impact customers and the time period over which the impact will occur could significantly impact future earnings and cash flows. separately, a challenge by a taxing authority, changes in taxing authorities' administrative interpretations, decisions, policies and positions, our ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect our financial results. future changes in accounting rules and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way we record revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to disruptions in operations and increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, all of which could negatively impact our financial results. we have risks associated with aging infrastructure, including our gas infrastructure assets. these risks can be driven by threats such as, but not limited to, internal corrosion, external corrosion and stress corrosion cracking. the age of these assets may result in a need for replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs, or unscheduled outages, despite efforts by us to properly maintain or upgrade these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. in addition, the nature of the information available on aging infrastructure assets, which in some cases is incomplete, may make inspections, maintenance, upgrading and replacement of the assets particularly challenging. additionally, missing or incorrect infrastructure data may lead to (1) difficulty properly locating facilities, which can result in excavator damage and operational or emergency response issues, and (2) configuration and control risks associated with the modification of system operating pressures in connection with turning off or turning on service to customers, which can result in unintended outages or operating pressures. also, additional maintenance and inspections are required in some instances in order to improve infrastructure information and records and address emerging regulatory or risk management requirements, which increases our costs. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in gas leaks and other incidents and in our inability to meet firm service obligations, which could adversely impact revenues, and could also result in increased capital expenditures and maintenance costs, which, if not fully recovered from customers, could negatively impact our financial results. the impacts of climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, accidents or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas distribution systems, or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems, in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack, cyber-attack (as further detailed below), accident or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. we have experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the occurrence of such events could adversely affect our financial position and results of operations. in accordance with customary industry practice, we maintain insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure. such risks include heat stresses to power lines, storms that damage infrastructure, lake and sea level changes that affect the manner in which services are currently provided, droughts or other stresses on water used to supply services, and other extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect our business in many ways, including increasing the costs we incur in providing our products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of our products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which we operate. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . a cyber-attack on any of our or certain third-party computer systems upon which we rely may adversely affect our ability to operate and could lead to a loss or misuse of confidential and proprietary information or potential liability. we are reliant on technology to run our business, which is dependent upon financial and operational computer systems to process critical information necessary to conduct various elements of our business, including the generation, transmission and distribution of electricity, operation of our gas pipeline facilities and the recording and reporting of commercial and financial transactions to regulators, investors and other stakeholders. in addition to general information and cyber risks that all large corporations face (e.g., malware, unauthorized access attempts, phishing attacks, malicious intent by insiders and inadvertent disclosure of sensitive information), the utility industry faces evolving and increasingly complex cybersecurity risks associated with protecting sensitive and confidential customer information, electric grid infrastructure, and natural gas infrastructure. deployment of new business technologies represents a new and large-scale opportunity for attacks on our information systems and confidential customer information, as well as on the integrity of the energy grid and the natural gas infrastructure. increasing large-scale corporate attacks in conjunction with more sophisticated threats continue to challenge power and utility companies. any failure of our computer systems, or those of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could materially disrupt our ability to operate our business and could result in a financial loss and possibly do harm to our reputation. additionally, our information systems experience ongoing, often sophisticated, cyber-attacks by a variety of sources, including foreign sources, with the apparent aim to breach our cyber-defenses. although we attempt to maintain adequate defenses to these attacks and work through industry groups and trade associations to identify common threats and assess our countermeasures, a security breach of our information systems, or a security breach of the information systems of our customers, suppliers or others with whom we do business, could (i) impact the reliability of our generation, transmission and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact our compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards, (ii) subject us to reputational and other harm or liabilities associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to our customers or employees, (iii) impact our ability to manage our businesses, and/or (iv) subject us to legal and regulatory proceedings and claims from third parties, in addition to remediation costs, any of which, in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, cash flows, financial condition, results of operations and/or prospects. although we do maintain cyber insurance, it is possible that such insurance will not adequately cover any losses or liabilities we may incur as a result of any cybersecurity-related litigation. our capital projects and programs subject us to construction risks and natural gas costs and supply risks, and require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from various governmental agencies. our business requires substantial capital expenditures for investments in, among other things, capital improvements to our electric generating facilities, electric and natural gas distribution infrastructure, natural gas storage, and other projects, including projects for environmental compliance. we are engaged in intrastate natural gas pipeline modernization programs to maintain system integrity and enhance service reliability and flexibility. nipsco also is currently engaged in a number of capital projects, including environmental improvements to its electric generating stations, the construction of new transmission facilities, and new projects related to renewable energy. as we undertake these projects and programs, we may be unable to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. additionally, we may construct or purchase some of these projects and programs to capture anticipated future growth in natural gas production, which may not materialize, and may cause the construction to occur over an extended period of time. our existing and planned capital projects require numerous permits, approvals and certificates from federal, state, and local governmental agencies. if there is a delay in obtaining any required regulatory approvals or if we fail to obtain or maintain any required approvals or to comply with any applicable laws or regulations, we may not be able to construct or operate our facilities, we may be forced to incur additional costs, or we may be unable to recover any or all amounts invested in a project. we also may not receive the anticipated increases in revenue and cash flows resulting from such projects and programs until after their completion. other construction risks include changes in costs of materials, equipment, commodities or labor (including changes to tariffs on materials), delays caused by construction incidents or injuries, work stoppages, shortages in qualified labor, poor initial cost estimates, unforeseen engineering issues, the ability to obtain necessary rights-of-way, easements and transmissions connections and general contractors and subcontractors not performing as required under their contracts. to the extent that delays occur, costs become unrecoverable, or we otherwise become unable to effectively manage and complete our capital projects, our results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition may be adversely affected. sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact our operations. we conduct our operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . on our infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in our systems not previously known to us or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. further, adverse weather may affect our ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations, including by causing service disruptions. failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, and maintain good labor relations, could harm our results of operations. we operate in an industry that requires many of our employees to possess unique technical skill sets. events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, the mismatch of skill sets to future needs, or the unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs. these operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period associated with skill development. in addition, current and prospective employees may determine that they do not wish to work for us due to market, economic, employment and other conditions. failure to hire and retain qualified employees, including the ability to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, may adversely affect our ability to manage and operate our business. if we are unable to successfully attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce, safety, service reliability, customer satisfaction and our results of operations could be adversely affected. some of our employees are subject to collective bargaining agreements. our collective bargaining agreements are generally negotiated on an operating company basis. any failure to reach an agreement on new labor contracts or to negotiate these labor contracts might result in strikes, boycotts or other labor disruptions. labor disruptions, strikes or significant negotiated wage and benefit increases, whether due to union activities, employee turnover or otherwise, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, results of operations and/or cash flows. we are a holding company and are dependent on cash generated by our subsidiaries to meet our debt obligations and pay dividends on our stock. we are a holding company and conduct our operations primarily through our subsidiaries, which are separate and distinct legal entities. substantially all of our consolidated assets are held by our subsidiaries. accordingly, our ability to meet our debt obligations or pay dividends on our common stock and preferred stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to us, our ability to service our debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. if we cannot effectively manage new initiatives and organizational changes, we will be unable to address the opportunities and challenges presented by our strategy and the business and regulatory environment. in order to execute on our sustainable growth strategy and enhance our culture of ongoing continuous improvement, we must effectively manage the complexity and frequency of new initiatives and organizational changes. if we are unable to make decisions quickly, assess our opportunities and risks, and implement new governance, managerial and organizational processes as needed to execute our strategy in this increasingly dynamic and competitive business and regulatory environment, our financial condition, results of operations and relationships with our business partners, regulators, customers and stockholders may be negatively impacted. we outsource certain business functions to third-party suppliers and service providers, and substandard performance by those third parties could harm our business, reputation and results of operations. utilities rely on extensive networks of business partners and suppliers to support critical enterprise capabilities across their organizations. global metrics indicate that deliveries from suppliers are slowing and that labor shortages are occurring in the energy sector. we outsource certain services to third parties in areas including construction services, information technology, materials, fleet, environmental, operational services and other areas. outsourcing of services to third parties could expose us to inferior service quality or substandard deliverables, which may result in non-compliance (including with applicable legal requirements and industry standards), interruption of service or accidents, or reputational harm, which could negatively impact our results of operations. if any difficulties in the operations of these third-party suppliers and service providers, including their systems, were to occur, they could adversely affect our results of operations, or adversely affect our ability to work with regulators, unions, customers or employees. changes in the method for determining libor and the potential replacement of the libor benchmark interest rate could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. some of our indebtedness, including borrowings under our revolving credit agreement and term loan agreement, bears interest at a variable rate based on libor. from time to time, we also enter into hedging instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in the libor benchmark interest rate. in addition, these hedging instruments, as well as hedging instruments that our subsidiaries 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . use for hedging natural gas price and basis risk, rely on libor-based rates to calculate interest accrued on certain payments that may be required to be made under these agreements, such as late payments or interest accrued if any cash collateral should be held by a counterparty. any changes announced by regulators in the method pursuant to which the libor rates are determined may result in a sudden or prolonged increase or decrease in the reported libor rates. if that were to occur, the level of interest payments we incur may change. in july 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority ( fca ), which regulates libor, announced that the fca intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. it is not possible to predict the effect of these changes, other reforms or the establishment of alternative reference rates in the united kingdom or elsewhere. in the united states, efforts to identify a set of alternative u.s. dollar reference interest rates include proposals by the alternative reference rates committee of the federal reserve board and the federal reserve bank of new york. the alternative reference rates committee has proposed the secured overnight financing rate ("sofr") as its recommended alternative to libor, and the federal reserve bank of new york began publishing sofr rates in april 2018. sofr is intended to be a broad measure of the cost of borrowing cash overnight that is collateralized by u.s. treasury securities. however, because sofr is a broad u.s. treasury repurchase agreement financing rate that represents overnight secured funding transactions, it differs fundamentally from libor. for example, sofr is a secured overnight rate, while libor is an unsecured rate that represents interbank funding over different maturities. in addition, because sofr is a transaction-based rate, it is backward-looking, whereas libor is forward-looking. because of these and other differences, there is no assurance that sofr will perform in the same way as libor would have performed at any time, and there is no guarantee that it is a comparable substitute for libor. sofr may fail to gain market acceptance. in addition, although certain of our libor based obligations provide for alternative methods of calculating the interest rate payable on certain of our obligations if libor is not reported, which include, without limitation, requesting certain rates from major reference banks in london or new york, uncertainty as to the extent and manner of future changes may result in interest rates and/or payments that are higher than, lower than or that do not otherwise correlate over time with, the interest rates or payments that would have been made on our obligations if a libor-based rate was available in its current form. 20 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors n i ource i nc . there are many factors that could have a material adverse effect on nisource operating results, financial condition and cash flows. new risks may emerge at any time, and nisource cannot predict those risks or estimate the extent to which they may affect financial performance. each of the risks described below could adversely impact the value of nisource securities. nisource has substantial indebtedness which could adversely affect its financial condition. nisource had total consolidated indebtedness of $7,953.8 million outstanding as of december 31, 2011. the substantial indebtedness could have important consequences to investors. for example, it could: limit the ability to borrow additional funds or increase the cost of borrowing additional funds; reduce the availability of cash flow from operations to fund working capital, capital expenditures and other general corporate purposes; limit the flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in the business and the industries in which the company operates; lead parties with whom nisource does business with, to require additional credit support- such as letters of credit, in order for nisource to transact such business; place nisource at a competitive disadvantage compared to competitors that are less leveraged; increase vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; and limit the ability of the company to execute on its growth strategy, which is dependent upon access to capital to fund its substantial investment program. some of nisource debt obligations contain financial covenants related to debt-to-capital ratios and cross-default provisions. nisource failure to comply with any of these covenants could result in an event of default, which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of outstanding debt obligations. additionally, a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact the cost for nisource to issue new debt securities. a drop in nisource credit rating could adversely impact nisource liquidity. on december 13, 2011, fitch affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at bbb-, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. fitch outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on november 18, 2011, moody investors service affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource at baa3, and the existing ratings of all other subsidiaries. moody outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. on february 24, 2011, standard &amp; poor affirmed the senior unsecured ratings for nisource and its subsidiaries at bbb-. standard &amp; poor outlook for nisource and all of its subsidiaries is stable. although all ratings continue to be investment grade, a downgrade by standard &amp; poor s, moody or fitch would result in a rating that is below investment grade. certain nisource affiliates have agreements that contain ratings triggers that require increased collateral if the credit ratings of nisource or certain of its subsidiaries are rated below bbb- by standard &amp; poor or baa3 by moody s. these agreements are primarily for insurance purposes and for the physical purchase or sale of power. the collateral requirement from a downgrade below the ratings trigger levels would amount to approximately $21.0 million. in addition to agreements with ratings triggers, there are other agreements that contain adequate assurance or material adverse change provisions that could necessitate additional credit support such as letters of credit and cash collateral to transact business. under northern indiana trade receivables sales program, an event of termination occurs if northern indiana debt rating is withdrawn by either standard &amp; poor or moody or falls below bb or ba2 at either standard &amp; poor or moody s, respectively. likewise, under columbia of ohio and columbia of pennsylvania trade receivables sales programs, an event of termination occurs if nisource debt rating is withdrawn by either standard &amp; poor or moody s, or falls below bb- or ba3 at either standard &amp; poor or moody s, respectively. additionally, as a result of nisource participation in certain derivative activities, a credit downgrade could cause nisource to be required to post substantial collateral in support of past and current transactions. these collateral requirements, combined with other potential negative effects on nisource liquidity in the event of a credit downgrade below an investment grade rating, could have a material adverse effect on earnings potential and cash flows. lastly, a credit downgrade could adversely affect the availability and cost of capital needed to fund the growth investments which are a central element of the company long-term business strategy. 9 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource may not be able to execute its growth strategy as planned. because of changes in the business or regulatory environment, nisource may not be able to execute its four-part business plan as intended. nisource commercial and regulatory initiatives may not achieve planned results; levels of commercial growth and expansion of the gas transmission and storage business may be less than its plan has anticipated; and the actual results of nisource financial management of the balance sheet, and process and expense management could deviate materially from planned outcomes. adverse economic and market conditions or increases in interest rates could reduce net revenue growth, increase costs, decrease future net income and cash flows and impact capital resources and liquidity needs. while the national economy is experiencing some recovery from the recent downturn, nisource cannot predict how robust the recovery will be or whether or not it will be sustained. continued sluggishness in the economy impacting nisource operating jurisdictions could adversely impact nisource ability to grow its customer base and collect revenues from customers, which could reduce net revenue growth and increase operating costs. an increase in the interest rates nisource pays would adversely affect future net income and cash flows. in addition, nisource depends on debt to finance its operations, including both working capital and capital expenditures, and would be adversely affected by increases in interest rates. if the current economic recovery remains slow or credit markets again tighten, nisource ability to raise additional capital or refinance debt at a reasonable cost could be negatively impacted. refer to note 16, long-term debt, in the notes to consolidated financial statements for information related to outstanding long-term debt and maturities of that debt. capital market performance and other factors may decrease the value of benefit plan assets, which then could require significant additional funding and impact earnings. the performance of the capital markets affects the value of the assets that are held in trust to satisfy future obligations under defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. nisource has significant obligations in these areas and holds significant assets in these trusts. these assets are subject to market fluctuations and may yield uncertain returns, which fall below nisource projected rates of return. a decline in the market value of assets may increase the funding requirements of the obligations under the defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. additionally, changes in interest rates affect the liabilities under these benefit plans; as interest rates decrease, the liabilities increase, which could potentially increase funding requirements. further, the funding requirements of the obligations related to these benefits plans may increase due to changes in governmental regulations and participant demographics, including increased numbers of retirements or changes in life expectancy assumptions. ultimately, significant funding requirements and increased pension expense could negatively impact nisource results of operations and financial position. the majority of nisource net revenues is subject to economic regulation and is exposed to the impact of regulatory rate reviews and proceedings. most of nisource net revenues are subject to economic regulation at either the federal or state level. as such, the net revenues generated by those regulated companies are subject to regulatory review by the applicable federal or state authority. these rate reviews determine the energy rates charged to customers and directly impact revenues. nisource financial results are dependent on frequent regulatory proceedings in order to ensure timely recovery of costs. additionally, the costs of complying with future changes in environmental laws and regulations are expected to be significant, and their recovery through rates will be contingent on regulatory approval. as a result of efforts to introduce market-based competition in certain of the markets where the regulated businesses conduct operations, nisource may compete with independent marketers for customers. this competition exposes nisource to the risk that certain stranded costs may not be recoverable and may affect results of nisource growth strategy and cash flows. 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . nisource costs of compliance with environmental laws are significant. the costs of compliance with future environmental laws and the recognition of environmental liabilities could impact cash flow and profitability. nisource subsidiaries are subject to extensive federal, state and local environmental requirements that, among other things, regulate air emissions, water usage and discharges, remediation and the management of chemicals, hazardous waste, solid waste, and coal combustion residuals. compliance with these legal obligations requires nisource to make expenditures for installation of pollution control equipment, remediation, environmental monitoring, emissions fees and permits at many of nisource facilities. these expenditures are significant, and nisource expects that they will continue to be significant in the future. furthermore, if nisource subsidiaries fail to comply with environmental laws and regulations or cause harm to the environment or persons, even if caused by factors beyond nisource control, that failure or harm may result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and damages against nisource and its subsidiaries. existing environmental laws and regulations may be revised and new laws and regulations seeking to protect the environment may be adopted or become applicable to nisource subsidiaries. revised or additional laws and regulations could result in significant additional expense and operating restrictions on nisource facilities or increased compliance costs, which may not be fully recoverable from customers and would, therefore, reduce net income. moreover, such costs could materially affect the continued economic viability of one or more of nisource facilities. because nisource operations deal with natural gas and coal fossil fuels, emissions of ghgs are an expected aspect of the business. while nisource attempts to reduce ghg emissions through efficiency programs, leak detection, and other programs, ghg emissions cannot be entirely eliminated. the current administration has made it clear that it is focused on reducing ghg emissions, through legislation and/or regulation. imposing statutory or regulatory restrictions and/or costs on ghg emissions could increase nisource cost of producing energy, which could impact customer demand or nisource profitability. compliance costs associated with these requirements could also affect nisource cash flow. the cost impact of any new or amended ghg legislation or regulations would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. even in instances where legal and regulatory requirements are already known, the original estimates for cleanup and environmental capital projects can differ materially from the amount ultimately expended. the actual future expenditures depend on many factors, including the nature and extent of contamination, the method of cleanup, the cost of raw materials, contractor costs, and the availability of cost recovery from customers. changes in costs could affect nisource financial position and cash flows. a significant portion of the gas and electricity nisource sells is used by residential and commercial customers for heating and air conditioning. accordingly, the operating results fluctuate depending on the weather and, to a certain extent, usage of gas or electricity. energy sales are sensitive to variations in weather. forecasts of energy sales are based on normal weather, which represents a long-term historical average. significant variations from normal weather could have, and have had, a material impact on energy sales. additionally, residential usage, and to some degree commercial usage, have shown to be sensitive to fluctuations in commodity costs for gas and electricity, whereby usage declines with increased costs, thus affecting nisource financial results. lastly, residential and commercial customers usage has shown to be sensitive to economic conditions and the impact of macro-economic drivers such as unemployment, consumption and consumer confidence, which could also affect nisource financial results. nisource business operations are subject to economic conditions in certain industries. business operations throughout nisource service territories have been and may continue to be adversely affected by economic events at the national and local level where it operates. in particular, sales to large industrial customers may be impacted by economic downturns. the u.s. manufacturing industry continues to adjust to changing market conditions including international competition, increasing costs, and fluctuating demand for its products. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . fluctuations in the price of energy commodities or their related transportation costs may have a negative impact on nisource financial results. nisource electric generating fleet is dependent on coal and natural gas for fuel, and its gas distribution operations purchase and resell much of the natural gas they deliver. these energy commodities are vulnerable to price fluctuations and fluctuations in associated transportation costs. hedging activities have been deployed in order to offset fluctuations in commodity supply prices and nisource relies on regulatory recovery mechanisms in the various jurisdictions in order to fully recover the costs incurred in operations. however, while nisource has historically been successful in recovery of costs related to such commodity prices, there can be no assurance that such costs will be fully recovered through rates in a timely manner. additionally, increased gas and electricity costs could result in reduced demand from customers as a result of increased conservation activities. nisource is exposed to risk that customers will not remit payment for delivered energy or services, and that suppliers or counterparties will not perform under various financial or operating agreements. nisource extension of credit is governed by a corporate credit risk policy, involves considerable judgment and is based on an evaluation of a customer or counterparty financial condition, credit history and other factors. credit risk exposure is monitored by obtaining credit reports and updated financial information for customers and suppliers, and by evaluating the financial status of its banking partners and other counterparties through the use of market-based metrics such as credit default swap pricing levels, and also through traditional credit ratings provided by the major credit rating agencies. continued adverse economic conditions could increase credit risk and could result in a material adverse effect on nisource. nisource has significant goodwill and definite-lived intangible assets. an impairment of goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets could result in a significant charge to earnings. in accordance with gaap, nisource tests goodwill for impairment at least annually and reviews its definite-lived intangible assets for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. goodwill would also be tested for impairment when factors, examples of which include reduced cash flow estimates, a sustained decline in stock price or market capitalization below book value, indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. nisource would be required to record a charge in the financial statements during the period in which any impairment of the goodwill or definite-lived intangible assets is determined, negatively impacting the results of operations. a significant charge could impact the capitalization ratio covenant under certain financing agreements. a covenant in the four-year revolving credit facility requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 70%. a similar covenant in a 2005 private placement note purchase agreement requires nisource to maintain a debt to capitalization ratio that does not exceed 75%. as of december 31, 2011, the ratio was 61.4%. changes in taxation and the ability to quantify such changes could adversely affect nisource financial results. nisource is subject to taxation by the various taxing authorities at the federal, state and local levels where it does business. legislation or regulation which could affect nisource tax burden could be enacted by any of these governmental authorities. nisource cannot predict the timing or extent of such tax-related developments which could have a negative impact on the financial results. additionally, nisource uses its best judgment in attempting to quantify and reserve for these tax obligations. however, a challenge by a taxing authority, nisource ability to utilize tax benefits such as carryforwards or tax credits, or a deviation from other tax-related assumptions may cause actual financial results to deviate from previous estimates. changes in accounting principles may adversely affect nisource financial results. future changes in accounting rules, such as ifrs, and associated changes in regulatory accounting may negatively impact the way nisource records revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. these changes in accounting standards may adversely affect its financial results. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . transporting and storing natural gas involves numerous risks that may result in accidents and other operating risks and costs. nisource gas distribution and gas transmission and storage activities involve a variety of inherent hazards and operating risks, such as leaks, accidents, including third party damages, and mechanical problems, which could cause substantial financial losses. in addition, these risks could result in serious injury to employees and non-employees, loss of human life, significant damage to property, environmental pollution and impairment of its operations, which in turn could lead to substantial losses to nisource. in accordance with customary industry practice, nisource maintains insurance against some, but not all, of these risks and losses. the location of pipelines and storage facilities near populated areas, including residential areas, commercial business centers and industrial sites, could increase the level of damages resulting from these risks. the occurrence of any of these events not fully covered by insurance could adversely affect nisource financial position and results of operations. aging infrastructure may lead to increased costs and disruptions in operations that could negatively impact nisource financial results. nisource has risks associated with aging infrastructure assets. the age of these assets may result in replacement, a higher level of maintenance costs and may be susceptible to unscheduled outages despite diligent efforts by nisource to properly maintain these assets through inspection, scheduled maintenance and capital investment. the failure to operate these assets as desired could result in nisource inability to meet firm service obligations, adversely impact revenues, and could result in increased capital expenditures and expenses, which may not be fully recoverable from customers. climate change, natural disasters, acts of terrorism, cyber-attacks or other catastrophic events may disrupt operations and reduce the ability to service customers. a disruption or failure of natural gas transmission, storage or distribution systems or within electric generation, transmission or distribution systems in the event of a major hurricane, tornado, terrorist attack or other catastrophic event could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, or performing other critical functions. nisource has experienced disruptions in the past from hurricanes and tornadoes and other events of this nature. the cost, availability and sufficiency of insurance for these risks could adversely affect nisource results of operations, financial position and cash flows. there is also a concern that climate change may exacerbate the risks to physical infrastructure associated with heat and extreme weather conditions. climate change and the costs that may be associated with its impacts have the potential to affect nisource business in many ways, including increasing the cost nisource incurs in providing its products and services, impacting the demand for and consumption of its products and services (due to change in both costs and weather patterns), and affecting the economic health of the regions in which nisource operates. additionally, a security breach of nisource information systems could (i) impact the reliability of nisource generation, transmission storage and distribution systems and potentially negatively impact nisource compliance with certain mandatory reliability standards (ii) subject nisource to harm associated with theft or inappropriate release of certain types of information such as system operating information or information, personal or otherwise, relating to nisource customers or employees, or (iii) impact nisource ability to manage nisource businesses. growing nisource business by constructing new pipelines and other facilities subjects nisource to construction risks and natural gas supply risks. nisource gas transmission &amp; storage operations continues to complete and advance customer-driven growth projects across its system, primarily surrounding the marcellus and utica shale production area in the states of pennsylvania, ohio and west virginia. these growth projects may include constructing or purchasing pipelines and treatment and processing facilities, which subjects nisource to construction risks and risks that gas supplies will not be available. if nisource undertakes these projects, it may not be able to complete them on schedule or at the anticipated costs. nisource may construct or purchase these projects to capture anticipated future growth in production in the region, which may not materialize, and the construction may occur over an extended period of time, and nisource will not receive material increases in revenue and cash flows until after the completion of the project. nisource competes for these projects with companies of varying size and financial capabilities, including some that may have advantages competing for natural gas and liquid gas supplies, as well as acquisitions and other business opportunities. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors n i ource i nc . sustained extreme weather conditions may negatively impact nisource operations. nisource conducts its operations across a wide geographic area subject to varied and potentially extreme weather conditions, which may from time to time persist for sustained periods of time. despite preventative maintenance efforts, persistent weather related stress on nisource infrastructure may reveal weaknesses in its systems not previously known to the company or otherwise present various operational challenges across all business segments. although nisource makes every effort to plan for weather related contingencies, adverse weather may affect its ability to conduct operations in a manner that satisfies customer expectations or contractual obligations. the company endeavors to minimize such service disruptions, but may not be able to avoid them altogether. growing competition in the gas transportation industry could result in the failure by customers to renew existing contracts. as a consequence of the increase in competition in the industry and the shift in natural gas production areas, end users and ldcs may be reluctant to enter into long-term service contracts. the renewal or replacement of existing contracts with nisource customers at rates sufficient to maintain current or projected revenues and cash flows depends on a number of factors beyond its control, including competition from other pipelines, gatherers, the proximity of supplies to the markets, and the price of, and demand for, natural gas. the inability of nisource to renew, or replace its current contracts as they expire and respond appropriately to changing market conditions could materially impact its financial results. nisource is a holding company and is dependent on cash generated by subsidiaries to meet its debt obligations and pay dividends on its common stock. nisource is a holding company and conducts its operations primarily through its subsidiaries. substantially all of nisource consolidated assets are held by its subsidiaries. accordingly, nisource ability to meet its debt obligations or pay dividends on its common stock is largely dependent upon cash generated by these subsidiaries. in the event a major subsidiary is not be able to pay dividends or transfer cash flows to nisource, its ability to service its debt obligations or pay dividends could be negatively affected. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk n i ource i nc . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are reported in item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations market risk disclosures. 63 table of contents