risk factors 14 risk factors for further information.) our reliance on designated external sources of manufacturing could be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply for our products, should such changes be necessary or desirable. however, if we were to be prevented from obtaining products from a substantial number of our current far east suppliers due to political, labor, public health concerns, such as the coronavirus, or other factors beyond our control, our operations and our ability to obtain products would be severely disrupted while alternative sources of product were secured and production shifted to those new sources. the imposition of trade sanctions, tariffs, border adjustment taxes or other measures by the united states or the european union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, or other countries where we manufacture significant numbers of products, or other factors which increase the cost of manufacturing in china, or other countries where we manufacture products, such as higher labor costs or an appreciation in the chinese yuan, could significantly disrupt our operations and/or significantly increase the cost of the products which are manufactured and imported into other markets and damage our sales and profitability. most of our products are manufactured from basic raw materials such as plastic, paper and cardboard, although certain products also make use of electronic components. all of these materials are readily available but may be subject to significant fluctuations in price. there are certain chemicals (including phthalates and bpa) that national, state and local governments have restricted or are seeking to restrict or limit the use of; however, we do not believe these restrictions have or will materially impact our business. we generally enter into agreements with suppliers at the beginning of a fiscal year that establish prices for that year. however, significant volatility in the prices of any of these materials may require renegotiation with our suppliers during the year. the manufacturing processes of our vendors include injection molding, blow molding, spray painting, printing, box making and assembly. competition we are a worldwide leader in the development, design, sale and marketing of toys and games and other family entertainment offerings, but our business is highly competitive. we compete with several large toy and game companies in our product categories, as well as many smaller united states and international toy and game designers, manufacturers and marketers. we also compete with other companies that offer branded entertainment specific to children and their families. given the ease of entry into our business we view our primary competition as coming from content providers who are creating entertainment experiences that compete with our brand-driven storytelling and product experiences for consumer attention and spending. businesses that create compelling content can readily translate that content into a full range of product offerings. competition is based primarily on meeting consumer entertainment preferences and on the quality and play value of our products and experiences. to a lesser extent, competition is also based on product pricing. our entertainment business competes with other companies that produce and distribute films, television programs and other entertainment content. for example, the discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the u.s., competes with a number of other children's television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. our programming distributed both domestically and internationally, and allspark animation's and allspark pictures' releases, compete with content from many other parties. eone, as an independent distributor and producer, competes with major u.s. and international studios that release a large number of films annually and command a significant share of box office revenues and television airtime, as well as other independent film and television production or distribution companies. many of the major u.s. studios are part of large, diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both in house distribution capability and varied sources of earnings that may allow them to better offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their film and television operations. some of these competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do and may be able to compete aggressively on pricing in order to increase box office revenues and television airtime. in addition, the resources of the major studios may give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. the competition we face may cause us to lose market share, achieve lower prices for our productions or pay more for third party content, any of which could harm our business. in addition to contending with competition from other toy and game and entertainment and storytelling companies, we contend with the phenomenon that children are increasingly sophisticated and have been moving away from traditional toys and games at a younger age. the variety of product and entertainment offerings available for children has expanded and product life cycles have shortened as children move on to more sophisticated offerings at earlier ages. we refer to this trend as children getting older younger . as a result, our products not only compete with those offerings produced by other toy and game manufacturers and companies offering branded family play and entertainment, we also compete, particularly in meeting the demands of older 11 table of contents children, with entertainment offerings of many technology companies, such as makers of tablets, mobile devices, video games and other consumer electronic products and screens. the changing trends in consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment and low barriers to entry as well as the emergence of new technologies continually creates new opportunities for existing competitors and start-ups to develop products that compete with our entertainment and toy and game offerings. employees at december 29, 2019, we employed approximately 5,600 persons worldwide, approximately 2,500 of whom were located in the united states. trademarks, copyrights and patents we seek to protect our products, for the most part, and in as many countries as practical, through registered trademarks, copyrights and patents to the extent that such protection is available, cost effective, and meaningful. the loss of such rights concerning any particular product is unlikely to result in significant harm to our business, although the loss of such protection for a number of significant items might have such an effect. government regulation our toy and game products sold in the united states are subject to the provisions of the consumer product safety act, as amended by the consumer product safety improvement act of 2008, (as amended, the cpsa ), the federal hazardous substances act (the fhsa ), the flammable fabrics act (the ffa ), and the regulations promulgated thereunder. in addition, a few of our products, such as the food mixes for our easy-bake ovens, are also subject to regulation by the food and drug administration. the cpsa empowers the consumer product safety commission (the cpsc ) to take action against hazards presented by consumer products, including the formulation and implementation of regulations and uniform safety standards. the cpsc has the authority to seek to declare a product a banned hazardous substance under the cpsa and to ban it from commerce. the cpsc can file an action to seize and condemn an imminently hazardous consumer product under the cpsa and may also order equitable remedies such as recall, replacement, repair or refund for the product. the fhsa provides for the repurchase by the manufacturer of articles that are banned. consumer product safety laws also exist in some states and cities within the united states and in many international markets including canada, australia and europe. we utilize independent third party laboratories that employ testing and other procedures intended to maintain compliance with the cpsa, the fhsa, the ffa, other applicable domestic and international product standards, and our own standards. notwithstanding the foregoing, there can be no assurance that our products are or will be hazard free. any material product recall or other safety issue impacting our products could have an adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition, depending on the product and scope of the recall, could damage our reputation and could negatively affect sales of our other products as well. the children's television act of 1990 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the united states federal communications commission, the rules and regulations of the federal trade commission, as well as the laws of certain other countries, also place limitations on television commercials during children's programming and on advertising in other forms to children, and on the collection of information from children, such as restrictions on collecting information from children under the age of thirteen subject to the provisions of the children's online privacy protection act. in addition to laws restricting the collection of information from children, our business is subject to other regulations, such as the general data protection regulation which became effective in the european union in may 2018, which restricts the collection, use, and retention of personal information. failure to comply with any of those restrictions can subject us to severe liabilities. further we maintain programs to comply with various united states federal, state, local and international requirements relating to the environment, health, safety and other matters. 12 table of contents executive officers of the registrant the following persons are the executive officers of the company. such executive officers are elected annually. the position(s) and office(s) listed below are the principal position(s) and office(s) held by such persons with the company. the persons listed below generally also serve as officers and directors of certain of the company's various subsidiaries at the request and convenience of the company. name age position and office held period serving in current position brian d. goldner(1) 56 chairman of the board and chief executive officer since 2017 john a. frascotti(2) 59 president and chief operating officer since 2018 darren throop(3) 55 chief executive officer, entertainment one since 2020 deborah m. thomas(4) 56 executive vice president and chief financial officer since 2013 tom courtney(5) 59 executive vice president, chief global operations officer since 2017 michael hogg(6) 65 executive vice president and chief commercial officer since 2020 dolph johnson 61 executive vice president and chief human resources officer since 2012 tarrant sibley(7) 51 executive vice president, chief legal officer and secretary since 2019 (1) prior thereto, chairman of the board, president and chief executive officer from 2015 to 2017; prior thereto, president and chief executive officer from 2008 to 2015. (2) prior thereto, president from 2017 to 2018; president hasbro brands from 2014 to 2017; executive vice president and chief marketing officer from 2013 to 2014; and senior vice president and global chief marketing officer from 2008 to 2013. (3) mr. throop was appointed an executive officer of hasbro in february 2020. he has served as chief executive officer of eone since 2003. (4) prior thereto, senior vice president and chief financial officer from 2009 to 2013. (5) prior thereto, senior vice president and general manager, global operations, from 2012 to 2017. (6) prior thereto, chief operating officer, commercial markets from 2018 to 2019; prior thereto, president, hasbro north america from 2011 to 2018. (7) prior thereto, senior vice president, chief legal officer and secretary from 2018 to 2019 and senior vice president and deputy general counsel from 2010 to 2018. availability of information our internet address is http://www.hasbro.com. we make our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, available free of charge on or through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. investors and others should note that we announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website at www.hasbro.com, under corporate investors , sec filings, press releases, public conference calls and webcasts. we use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our shareholders and the public about our company, our products and other matters. it is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed on our investor relations website. hasbro has used, and intends to continue to use, our investor relations website, as a means of disclosing material non-public information and for complying with its disclosure obligations under regulation fd. further corporate governance information, including our articles of incorporation, bylaws, governance guidelines, committee charters, and code of business conduct and ethics, is also available on our investor relations website www.hasbro.com, under corporate investors corporate governance. the contents of our website are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this form 10-k or in any other report or document we file with the sec, and any references to our websites are intended to be inactive textual references only. 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. in evaluating our business, the risks described below, as well as other information contained in this annual report on form 10-k and in our other filings with the securities and exchange commission should be considered carefully. additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business. the occurrence of any of these events or circumstances could individually or in the aggregate have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, cash flow or results of operations. this report contains forward-looking statements; please refer to the cautionary statements made under the heading "special note regarding forward-looking statements" for more information on the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements. risks related to our business our strategy involves focusing on franchise and key partner brands, and successfully developing, or in the case of partner brands, successfully working with our partners to develop, those brands across our brand blueprint in a wide array of innovative toys and games, consumer products, storytelling and digital experiences. if we are not successful in developing and expanding these critical brands our business will suffer. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands with an emphasis on developing our franchise and key partner brands, which we view as having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands, we believe we can gain additional leverage and enhance the consumer experience. but this focus also means that our future success depends disproportionately on our and our partners' ability to successfully develop this select group of brands across our brand blueprint and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of these brands to global consumers in a wide array of markets. this strategy has required us to acquire, build and develop competencies in new areas, including storytelling, digital content and consumer products. acquiring, developing and growing these competencies has required significant effort, time and money, with no assurance of success. our franchise and partner brands account for the substantial majority of our revenues. if we are unable to successfully maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, continue to drive their relevance to consumers and grow sales of products and storytelling experiences based on those brands, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will suffer. in addition to continuing to grow and develop our existing franchise brands, successfully executing our brand strategy requires us to successfully develop other brands, such as power rangers which was acquired in 2018, and peppa pig, pj masks and ricky zoom, which were acquired as part of our acquisition of eone as of december 30, 2019. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to do this successfully. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to create storytelling experiences and to design and develop products and entertainment offerings which will be popular with children, families and audiences, or to maintain the popularity of successful products and brands. the interests of children, families and audiences evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year and by geography. to be successful, we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture consumers' interests and imagination, and quickly develop and introduce innovative products and engaging entertainment which can compete successfully for consumers' limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever-increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever-changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products and entertainment offerings can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products and entertainment offerings can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. consumer acceptance of our or our partners' entertainment offerings is also affected by outside factors, such as critical reviews, promotions, the quality and acceptance of films and television programs and content released into the marketplace at or near the same time, the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions and public tastes generally, all of which could change rapidly and most of which are beyond our control. there can be no assurance that films and television programs we produce or distribute will obtain favorable reviews or ratings, that films we distribute or produce will perform well at the box office or in ancillary markets or that broadcasters will license the rights to broadcast any of our television programs in development or renew licenses to broadcast programs in our library. 14 table of contents if we devote time and resources to developing and marketing entertainment and products that consumers do not accept or do not find interesting enough to buy in sufficient quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. similarly, if our product offerings and entertainment fail to correctly anticipate consumer interests, our revenues and earnings will be reduced. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products and storytelling experiences that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today's children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are investing in, designing and marketing products which incorporate more technology, seek to integrate digital and analog play, and aim to capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. costs associated with designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated toy products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to sell enough of these advanced products, at prices high enough to recoup our costs and make a profit, is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a result, we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs and we may lose money on the development and sale of these products. additionally, designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products requires different competencies and follows different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of these products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such products. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. with the increasing array of technology and competitive entertainment offerings, we cannot guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product's life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. technological development, including changes in entertainment delivery formats, drives frequent changes within the film and television industry and our failure to respond to or capitalize on these changes could harm our business. the entertainment industry experiences frequent change driven by technological development, including developments with respect to the formats through which films, television programming and recorded music are delivered to consumers. with rapid technological changes and dramatically expanded digital content offerings, the scale and scope of these changes have accelerated in recent years. for example, consumers are increasingly accessing television and film content on streaming and digital content networks, such as netflix and amazon prime video, which has caused significant disruption to the retail distribution of films, television programming and recorded music. we may also lose opportunities to capitalize on changing market dynamics, technological innovations or consumer tastes if we do not adapt our content offerings or distribution capabilities in a timely manner. the overall effect that technological development and new digital distribution platforms have on the revenue and profits we derive from our entertainment content, and the additional costs associated with changing markets, media platforms and technologies, is unpredictable. if we fail to accurately assess and effectively respond to changes in technology and consumer behavior in the entertainment industry, our business may be harmed. engaging storytelling across media is an increasingly important factor for driving brand awareness and successfully building brands. entertainment media, in forms such as television, films, digital content and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our brands and our partners' brands and the success, 15 table of contents or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial performance. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases, both by our partners and our own media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, such as licensors, film studios, content producers and distribution channels with whom we work, heavily impact the amount, content and timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. in 2019, for example, we developed and marketed significant product lines tied to the film releases by key partners of a number of properties, including disney's frozen ii, marvel's avengers: endgame, marvel's captain marvel, marvel's spider-man and star wars: the rise of skywalker. those films are developed and released by our partners and our partners control the content and schedule for such films. other key partner product lines we offer, such as disney princess, disney's descendants and beyblade, depend on television support by our partners for their successes. similarly, we are developing and marketing products for entertainment in which we play a more active role in developing or develop ourselves, such as transformers, power rangers and my little pony. in the future, we expect to have an even greater role in developing our own entertainment offerings for our brands, including those in our vault, through eone's expertise, experience and relationships in the entertainment industry, as we work together to unlock value in our brands. if films, television shows, or any other key entertainment content for which we develop and market products are not as successful as we and our partners anticipate, our revenues and earnings will fall. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, studio, content, distribution and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular film projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future films and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts, and the fact that third party partners of ours may decide not to develop such entertainment. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. outbreaks of communicable infections or diseases, or other public health pandemics, such as the global coronavirus outbreak currently being experienced, in the markets in which we and our employees, consumers, customers, suppliers and manufacturers operate, could substantially harm our business. disease outbreaks and other public health conditions, such as the global outbreak of the coronavirus currently being experienced, in markets in which we, our employees, consumers, customers, suppliers and manufacturers operate, could have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. the occurrence of these types of events can result, and in the case of the coronavirus has resulted in, disruptions and damage to our business, caused by both the negative impact to our ability to design, develop, manufacture and ship product (the supply side impact) and the negative impact on consumer purchasing behavior (the demand side impact). the negative impact to supply can be driven by: manufacturing and other work stoppages, factory and other business closings, slowdowns or delays, including in china where a substantial portion of our manufacturing occurs; restrictions and limitations placed on workers and factories, including quarantines and other limitations on the ability to travel and return to work; and shortages or delays in production or shipment of products or raw materials. the negative impact to demand can be caused by delays in or reduced purchases from customers and consumers who may not be able to leave home or otherwise shop in a normal manner, and may have lower discretionary income due to reduced or limited work. while we have developed and continue to develop plans to help mitigate the negative impact of the coronavirus to our business, the efforts will not completely prevent our business from being adversely affected, and the longer the outbreak impacts supply and demand the more negative the impact it will have on our business, revenues and earnings, and the more limited our ability will be to try and make up for delayed or lost product development, production and sales. the coronavirus outbreak continues to be fluid and uncertain, making it difficult to forecast the final impact it could have on our future operations. if our business experiences prolonged occurrence of adverse public health conditions, such as the coronavirus, we believe our business could be substantially harmed. 16 table of contents we depend on third party relationships with studios, content producers and distribution channels to develop and distribute entertainment content and those relationships are critical to our operations. under our relationship with paramount, and now through our ownership of eone, we are playing a more significant role in the production and financing of films based on our properties. this has the advantage of giving us more input as to what and when properties are developed into films, and can allow us to earn a greater return from successful films, but it also increases the money we directly spend on film production and puts that investment at risk. if our films are not as successful as we anticipate they will be, or if we are not able to produce and distribute films according to the schedule we have planned, due to creative or other difficulties or delays, our financial performance will be negatively impacted. additionally, eone obtains distribution rights for films from third party content producers and produce television programs sold through a number of distribution channels. our financial performance may be adversely affected by our relationships with these content producers and distribution channels. some of these content producers are affiliates of major studios that have their own distribution capability in the markets in which we operate, and some of these distribution channels produce their own content or are affiliated with other content producers. these content producers and distribution channels may decide, or be required by their respective parent companies, to use their intra company distribution or content production capabilities rather than contracting with us for distribution or content production. our business may be harmed if the content producers and distribution channels with which we work stop licensing content to us, or purchasing content from us, on favorable terms or at all and we are unable to establish new relationships to ensure the acquisition and sale of content in a timely and efficient manner. the play and entertainment industry and consumer products industry are highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailers' private label toy products, our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the play and entertainment industry and the consumer products industry are, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the u.s. and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. in addition, we compete with other companies who are focused on building their brands across multiple product and consumer categories. across our business, we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers, and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in 2018, for example, our nerf branded products faced significantly increased competition from both newer entrants into the blaster space, as well as from private label offerings from major retailers. a number of these competitors sought to gain market share by offering products with less innovation than our products at price points below our products, particularly by offering blasters in the under $20 retail price range. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children's and family entertainment industry and in the consumer products industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors' products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers and brand owners. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children's and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. we face competition from major film studios and television production companies as well as other independent distributors and independent content producers. our entertainment business competes with other companies that produce and distribute films and television programs. for example, the discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the u.s., competes with a number of other children's television networks for viewers, 17 table of contents advertising revenue and distribution fees. our programming distributed both domestically and internationally, and allspark animation's and allspark pictures' releases, compete with content from many other parties. entertainment one, as an independent distributor and producer, competes with major u.s. and international studios, that release a large number of films annually and command a significant share of box office revenues and television airtime, as well as other independent film and television production or distribution companies. many of the major u.s. studios are part of large, diversified corporate groups with a variety of other operations, including television networks and cable channels that can provide both in house distribution capability and varied sources of earnings that may allow them to better offset fluctuations in the financial performance of their film and television operations. some of these competitors have substantially greater marketing and financial resources than we do and may be able to compete aggressively on pricing in order to increase box office revenues and television airtime. in addition, the resources of the major studios may give them an advantage in acquiring other businesses or assets, including film libraries, that we might also be interested in acquiring. the competition we face may cause us to lose market share, achieve lower prices for our productions or pay more for third party content, any of which could harm our business. we cannot guarantee that our entertainment business will be successful. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by our entertainment business, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers' compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. further, ecommerce and omni-channel is growing significantly and accounting for a higher portion of the ultimate sales of our products to consumers. ecommerce retailers tend to hold less inventory and take inventory closer to the time of sale to consumers than traditional retailers. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated, may reduce or eliminate the profitability of such products or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. our success depends on our ongoing ability to successfully evolve our capabilities and business to meet the challenges of a changing retail landscape and to successfully develop new and expanded aspects of our business. our success depends on our ability to continue evolving and transforming our business to address a changing global consumer landscape and retail environment, one in which online shopping accounts for an increasing percentage of total sales to consumers, digital first marketing is critical to garner and develop consumer interest, ecommerce focused companies like amazon.com, inc. are now among our largest customers, traditional brick and mortar retailers face challenges to their businesses from the disintermediation caused by the expanding prevalence of online shopping, and the presence of specialty toy retailers has been significantly reduced in many of our markets due to bankruptcies, such as that of toys r us, potentially reducing, at least in the shorter term, physical shelf space available to offer family entertainment properties. these market conditions require that we drive a digital-first orientation throughout our company, adapt the way we produce and distribute our products to meet the needs of ecommerce retailers, and continue developing alternate retail channels to reach our consumers and recapture shelf space lost by specialty retailers. in addition to successfully driving our business in a changing retail landscape, our future success depends on developing new and expanded areas of our business. through our acquisition of eone, we have made significant investments in our business that we believe can accelerate our brand blueprint strategy. we have added global preschool brands, new storytelling capabilities, veteran leadership and expertise in television and film, which we believe can build and strengthen our brands and improve our franchise economics. another area we have invested considerable time and resources is our initiative to drive our dungeons &amp; dragons brand through development 18 table of contents of digital gaming as well as our magic: the gathering brand through digital gaming and esports through our magic: the gathering arena online game and our magic: the gathering esports initiative. to grow our business through these and other initiatives we require different skills, investments and business strategies than more traditional areas of our business and our ability to successfully and profitably develop and deploy those skills and strategies, and drive those businesses, will be a major factor in achieving future success for our company. failure to execute on our initiatives could harm our business. our substantial business, sales and manufacturing operations outside the u.s. subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the u.s. we expect net revenues from our international segment to continue accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in dollars and as a percentage of our overall business as a result of a key business strategy to expand our presence in emerging and underserved international markets, such as eastern europe, latin america, africa and asia. additionally, we utilize third-party manufacturers primarily located in the far east to produce most of our products. these international operations, including operations in emerging markets, have unique consumer preferences and business climates, present additional challenges and are subject to risks that may significantly harm our sales, increase our costs or otherwise damage our business, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; the imposition of tariffs, quotas, border adjustment taxes or other protectionist measures; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions, which can materially increase our taxes and other costs of doing business; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the u.s.; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; and changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally. tariffs increase the costs of our products and can lower sales. the current tariff environment, particularly the imposition or threat of tariffs on products manufactured in china for import into the u.s., has negatively impacted our business and may continue to negatively impact our business, sales and profitability. the threat and imposition of tariffs have resulted in the elimination of some direct import orders, where customers take ownership of products near the source of supply and import the product themselves into the u.s., in favor of shifting to domestic orders, which requires us to ship the products to the u.s., and import and warehouse the products prior to delivery to the customer. this shift to domestic orders raises the cost to us, can result in delays in the time of a sale, and may result in the potential loss of some orders entirely due to the lack of timely supply or other delays. we cannot assure you that we will be able to successfully implement actions to lessen the impact of tariffs imposed on our products, including any changes to our supply chain, logistics capabilities, sales policies or pricing of our products. because of the importance of international sales, sourcing and manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business and operating in an environment with more tariffs. 19 table of contents changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. depreciation in key currencies may have a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings as they are reported in u.s. dollars. global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, or other factors negatively impacting retail sales, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the u.s. and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. these challenges can be exacerbated if our customers accumulate excess retail inventories over time due to their purchases of our products exceeding sales of those products to ultimate consumers. it can then take us significant time, working with our retailers, to reduce those excess retail inventories, and, in the interim, our sales of new products can be negatively impacted. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we and our employees, consumers, customers, suppliers and manufacturers operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions, such as the coronavirus as described above, in the markets we, our employees, consumers, customers, suppliers and manufacturers operate, could have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. the occurrence of these types of events can result, and in the case of the coronavirus has resulted in, manufacturing and other work stoppages, slowdowns and delays; shortages or delays in production or shipment of products or raw materials; delays or reduced purchases from customers and consumers; and other factors that cause increases in costs or delay in revenues. prolonged occurrences of adverse health conditions could harm our business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded-play entertainment products we offer. weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for 20 table of contents paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, such as the coronavirus, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. the united kingdom's withdrawal from the european union, commonly referred to as brexit, may have an adverse effect on our operations. on january 31, 2020, the united kingdom ("uk") formally withdrew from the european union ("eu"), entering a transitional period which is currently expected to end on december 31, 2020. during this transitional period, eu law will continue to apply in the uk while providing time for the uk and eu to negotiate the details of their future relationship. if at the end of the transitional period, the uk leaves the european union with no agreement, it may result in increased costs of goods imported into and exported from the uk and may decrease the profitability of our uk and other operations. we continue to closely monitor the negotiations and the impact to foreign currency markets, however we cannot predict the direction of brexit-related developments or the impact of those developments on our european and eone operations and the economies of the markets in which they operate. our business depends, in large part, on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain, renew and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, disney princess and disney frozen, beyblade and dreamworks' trolls. our agreements relating to marvel and star wars were extended in february 2020. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years, our sales of products under the marvel, star wars and beyblade licenses have been highly significant to our business. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be maintained, renewed or extended, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street, disney princess, disney frozen, dreamworks' trolls, yokai-watch or beyblade, and the ability of us to successfully market and sell related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which, in turn, would harm our results of operations. 21 table of contents acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties, we cannot guarantee that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, we cannot assure you that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire, maintain, renew or extend successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. we have long term output licensing agreements for the acquisition of content and these agreements may not be renewed on favorable terms or at all. through the acquisition of eone in 2020, we have long term agreements to acquire and distribute content. these agreements require us to pay for films released by the relevant studio at rates typically calculated by reference to the film's budget (subject to maximum amounts payable per film and a cap on the maximum number of films that can be delivered to us each year). in addition, we have entered into long term contracts for the acquisition of certain of our television programs. as these contracts expire, we may choose to renew, renegotiate or terminate them; equally, these arrangements are terminable by the counterparty under certain circumstances (including unremedied material breach). if we are unable to renew or replace them on acceptable terms, we may not be able to replace this content with single film acquisitions. even if these contracts are renewed or replaced, the terms on which we acquire content may be less favorable than the terms of our current agreements and the financial success or quantity of films and television programs we acquire through these long term contracts may decrease. there can also be no assurance that revenues based on these long term contracts will exceed the costs of acquiring the films or television programs. our business is seasonal and therefore our quarterly and annual operating results may fluctuate. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers' quick response or just in time inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more and more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response or just in time inventory management techniques, including the use of automated inventory replenishment programs. further, ecommerce is growing significantly and accounting for a higher portion of the ultimate sales of our products to consumers. ecommerce retailers tend to hold less inventory and take inventory closer to the time of sale to consumers than traditional retailers. as a result, customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occurs in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occurs in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer's investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. this can also result in our losing significant revenues and earnings if our supply chain is unable to supply product to our customers when they want it. tariffs can exacerbate this negative impact by causing retailers to shift from direct import to domestic orders, further pressuring our supply chain as we experienced in 2019. the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and 22 table of contents respond to consumer demand, resulting in under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. our entertainment business is also subject to seasonal variations based on the timing of film cinema releases, physical home entertainment, and television and digital content releases. release dates are determined by several factors, including the timing of holiday periods, the u.s. release date of the film and competition in the market. as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a natural disaster, a terrorist attack or economic shock that harms the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for example, for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2019, wal-mart stores, inc., target corporation and amazon.com accounted for approximately 18%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 59% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. as an example of this, the bankruptcy filing by toys r us in the u.s. and canada in september 2017, and in the united kingdom in early 2018, and the subsequent liquidations of the toys r us business in many markets globally during 2018, as well as the inability of toys r us to pay certain outstanding receivables, significantly reduced our sales and profitability in the fourth quarter of 2017 and throughout 2018. the liquidation of millions of units of retail inventory held by toys r us into the market at closeout prices had a more substantial negative impact to sales of new products by us in 2018 than we, and industry experts, had initially expected in early 2018. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our other significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. all of our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. should changes be necessary, our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters, adverse health conditions or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in china, health conditions, such as the coronavirus, and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. 23 table of contents factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, slow-downs, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. prolonged disputes or slowdowns at west coast ports can negatively impact both the time and cost of transporting goods into the u.s. natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china can also have a significant negative impact on our business. further, the imposition of tariffs, border adjustment taxes, trade sanctions or other regulations or economic penalties by the u.s. or the european union against products imported by us from china or other foreign countries, or the loss of normal trade relations status with china or other foreign countries in which we operate, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the u.s. or europe, shift more orders to domestic sales, put additional shipping and warehousing burdens on us, delay the time of our sales to retailers, result in some lost sales, and otherwise harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china or another market in which we source products could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we have been working over the last several years to reduce our reliance on manufacturing in china, such as by moving production of certain products to facilities in other countries like india, vietnam and mexico, as well as by increasing production of our products in other markets, including in the u.s. we plan to continue those efforts in future years, but cannot guarantee we will be as successful in these efforts as we plan. furthermore, many of these newer production facilities, such as in india and vietnam, raise other risks in that we are working with vendors who have not been manufacturing products like ours for as long as historical vendors in china. that means these new vendors must successfully develop the capability to manufacture our products to the quality and safety standards we require and within the tight timeframe required by our customers. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and employees around the world. in the entertainment industry, experienced personnel and top creative talent are in high demand and competition for their talents is intense. the impact of failing to retain key employees can be high due to loss of key knowledge and relationships, loss of creative talent, lost productivity, hiring and training costs, all of which could result in lower profitability. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and employees we need to succeed. recently we have experienced significant changes in our workforce due to our acquisition of eone, as well as our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required for our changing global business. the changes in our employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, have required changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. 24 table of contents to remain competitive we must continuously develop new skills and work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but we cannot guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete, we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. we intend to achieve this partly by focusing on a select number of global brand initiatives and through process improvements, including in global product development. however, we cannot guarantee we will achieve our cost savings and efficiency enhancing goals and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from these initiatives. in response to the continuing evolution of the global consumer landscape, shopping behaviors and the retail environment, in recent years, we have taken certain actions as part of our ongoing efforts to transform and reimagine our business, to strengthen our connections with audiences and consumers, and enhance our ability to continue bringing meaningful brand experiences to life. these actions included a commercial reorganization as well as adding new capabilities based on our understanding of changing consumer behaviors and how our retailers are going to market, while also changing many of the ways we organize across our brand blueprint. the actions also included headcount reductions aimed at right-sizing our cost-structure. we cannot guarantee that our restructuring actions will deliver the cost-reductions we estimate or that our ongoing efforts to evolve our business will be as successful as we plan. our business is critically dependent on our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. our intellectual property, including our trademarks and tradenames, copyrights, patents, and rights under our license agreements and other agreements that establish our intellectual property rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of critical value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the u.s. and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the u.s. and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights, including the possibility of unauthorized third parties copying and distributing our productions or certain portions or applications of our intended productions, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. similarly, third parties may claim ownership over certain aspects of our products, productions or other intellectual property. our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business and competitive position. we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. declines in the profitability of acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may incur impairments and write offs if the films and television programs we acquire and produce do not perform well enough to recoup our acquisition, production, marketing and distribution costs. we incur significant costs to acquire, produce and distribute content. most agreements to acquire content for distribution require minimum guarantees against royalties. the minimum guarantees are derived from our estimate of net revenues that will be realized from our distribution of the title in the relevant markets, and actual results may differ from those estimates. if sales do not meet our original estimates, we may: (i) not recognize the expected gross margin or net profit; (ii) not recoup our minimum guarantees or distribution expenses; (iii) record accelerated amortization and/or fair value write downs of minimum guarantees paid; or (iv) not recoup the additional funds and expenses invested to market films that we have produced or acquired. with respect to content we produce, we are required to amortize capitalized production costs based on estimated ultimate revenue as we recognize revenues from the associated films or television productions. unamortized production costs are evaluated for impairment each reporting period on a project by project basis. if estimated remaining revenue is not sufficient to recover the unamortized production costs, the unamortized production costs will be written down to fair value. in any given quarter, if we lower our previous forecast with respect to total anticipated revenue from any individual film or other project, we may be required to accelerate 25 table of contents amortization or record impairment charges with respect to the unamortized costs, even if we have previously recorded impairment charges for such film or other project. such impairment and accelerated amortization charges and write offs could harm our financial results. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater-than-expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in discovery family channel, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for discovery family channel. if the discovery family channel is not successful our investments may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. we incurred significant indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of eone. as a result it may be more difficult for us to pay or refinance our debt or take other actions, and we may need to divert cash to fund debt service payments . we incurred significant indebtedness to finance our acquisition of eone. the increase in our debt service obligations resulting from additional indebtedness could have a material adverse effect on the results of operations, financial condition and prospects of the combined company. in particular, our increased indebtedness could: make it more difficult and/or costly for us to pay or refinance our debts as they become due, particularly during adverse economic and industry conditions, because a decrease in revenues or increase in costs could cause cash flow from operations to be insufficient to make scheduled debt service payments; require a substantial portion of our available cash to be used for debt service payments, thereby reducing the availability of our cash to fund working capital, capital expenditures, development projects, acquisitions or other strategic opportunities, dividend payments, share repurchases and other general corporate purposes, which could harm our prospects for growth and the market price of the notes and other debt securities, among other things; result in downgrades in the credit ratings on our indebtedness, which could limit our ability to borrow additional funds on favorable terms or at all (including in order to refinance our other debt), increase the interest rates under our credit facilities (including the hasbro term loan facility) and under any new indebtedness we may incur, and reduce the trading prices of our outstanding debt securities and common stock; make it more difficult for us to raise capital to fund working capital, make capital expenditures, pay dividends, pursue strategic initiatives or for other purposes; result in higher interest expense, which could be further increased in case of current or future borrowings subject to variable rates of interest; require that materially adverse terms, conditions or covenants be placed on us under our debt instruments, which could include, for example, limitations on additional borrowings or limitations on our ability to create liens, pay dividends, repurchase our common stock or make investments, any of which could hinder our access to capital markets or our flexibility in the conduct of our business and make us more vulnerable to economic downturns and adverse competitive industry conditions; and jeopardize our ability to pay our indebtedness if we were to experience a severe downturn in our business. we have relied on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we may rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $1,000.0 million in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. we cannot guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we also have a revolving credit agreement which provides for a $1,500.0 million committed revolving credit facility, effective upon completion of the acquisition of eone on december 30, 2019. this facility is a further source of working capital funding and liquidity and supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit 26 table of contents agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance our outstanding debt or face default. we cannot guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. the production of films and television programs require a substantial investment of capital and utilizes production financing to invest in productions. with the acquisition of eone we expect to continue to use production financing to finance certain of our productions, which eone has historically been able to obtain on commercially reasonable terms. in the event that we are unable to provide eone with appropriate financing or if third party production financing becomes unavailable, for example, if finance providers become unwilling or unable (due to creditors' own constraints and ability to lend) to provide production financing on reasonable commercial terms or at all, we may not have sufficient alternative funding sources available to finance a particular production. in this case, we may not be able to produce the films and television programs we aim to do as part of our business plan and strategy which could harm our business. following our acquisition of eone, the distribution of canadian certified content is an important part of our business, and we benefit from funding from the canadian government. eone's canadian business utilizes certain government incentive programs and tax credits in canada to finance a portion of its production budgets. if these incentive programs or tax credits were to be reduced, amended or eliminated, or if eone no longer qualified for these programs or tax credits, our and eone's business, financial condition, operating results or prospects could be materially and adversely affected. the loss of canadian status of entertainment one canada ltd. could result in the loss of licenses, incentives and tax credits. through our acquisition of eone, we indirectly acquired all of the non-voting equity shares and preferred shares in entertainment one canada ltd. ( eocl ) and (b) 25% of the voting shares in eocl. the remaining 75% of the voting shares in eocl are held by independent shareholders, who are not controlled by us. eocl is able to benefit from a number of licenses, incentive programs and canadian government tax credits as a result of it being canadian as defined in the investment canada act. as part of our acquisition of eone, we have taken measures to ensure that eocl's canadian status is maintained. there can be no assurance, however, that we will be able to maintain eocl's canadian status. the loss of eocl's canadian status could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects, including the possible loss of future incentive programs and clawback of funding previously provided to eocl. 27 table of contents as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the u.s., under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of 13 is subject to the provisions of the children's online privacy protection act and other privacy laws around the world. the collection of personally identifiable information from anyone, including adults, is under increasing regulation in many markets, and in may 2018, the general data protection regulation became effective in the european union. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts and regulations, we cannot assure you that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines, liabilities or sanctions which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. our business also involves risks of liability claims for media content, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. as a distributor and producer of media content, we may face potential liability for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, and other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. these types of claims have been brought, sometimes successfully, against producers and distributors of media content. any imposition of liability that is not covered by insurance or is in excess of insurance coverage could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, operating results or prospects. our entertainment business could be adversely affected by strikes or other union job actions. our entertainment business is directly or indirectly dependent upon highly specialized union members who are essential to the production of films and television programs. a strike by, or a lockout of, one or more of the unions that provide personnel essential to the production of films or television programs could delay or halt our ongoing production activities. such a halt or delay, depending on the length of time, could cause a delay or interruption in our release of new films and television programs, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our growth and the development of our business, and that is likely to continue in the future. acquisitions can broaden and diversify our brand holdings and product 28 table of contents offerings, and allow us to build additional capabilities and competencies around our brand blueprint. in reviewing potential acquisitions or investments, we target brands, assets or companies that we believe offer attractive entertainment products or offerings, the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings, opportunities to drive our strategic brand blueprint and associated competencies, or other synergies. we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products, develop our competencies or to grow our business. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating, revenue or cost synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products, entertainment or services in the future. we cannot guarantee that any acquisition or investment we may make will be successful or beneficial, and acquisitions can consume significant amounts of management attention and other resources, which may negatively impact other aspects of our business. for additional risks relating to our acquisition of eone, see risks related to our business following the acquisition of eone . failure to successfully operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including product development, management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, financial reporting and various other processes and transactions. we are critically dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees or partners. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we and our business partners maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and entertainment under development, and also contains certain customer, consumer, supplier, partner and employee data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion, cyber-attacks or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, consumers, suppliers, partners, employees or ourselves, or failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of or damage to this data through breach of our information technology systems or other means could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our customers, consumers, employees and other business partners, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations, subject us to potentially significant costs and liabilities and result in a loss of business that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as a large multinational corporation, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us as well as claims by third parties that our products infringe 29 table of contents upon or misuse such third parties' property or rights. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in a significant number of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or differing interpretations of, income tax laws and rules, and changes in our geographic operating results, may impact our effective tax rate. we are subject to income taxes in the u.s. and in various international tax jurisdictions. we also conduct business activities between our operating units in various jurisdictions and we are subject to transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate. there is some degree of uncertainty and subjectivity in complying with transfer pricing rules. our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in, or the interpretation of, tax laws or by changes in the amount of revenue and earnings we derive, or are determined to derive by tax authorities, from jurisdictions with differing tax rates. in addition, we may be subject to tax examinations by federal, state, and international jurisdictions, and these examinations can result in significant tax findings if the tax authorities interpret the application of laws and rules differently than we do or disagree with the intercompany rates we are applying. we assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from tax uncertainties. while we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax benefits, or results of possible current or future tax examinations, may differ from our estimates and may have a significant adverse impact on our business and operating results. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be evaluated for impairment at least annually. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2018, the company took a number of actions to react to a rapidly changing mobile gaming industry that resulted in changes to the long-term projections for the backflip business which led the company to conclude the goodwill associated with the backflip reporting unit was impaired which led to an impairment charge for the year ended december 30, 2018. risks related to our business following the consummation of the acquisition of eone we may not realize the anticipated financial benefits of the acquisition of eone. while we expect the acquisition of eone to result in significant synergies and to be accretive to earnings per share (on an adjusted earnings basis that is not calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the u.s. ( u.s. gaap ), this expectation is based on estimates and assumptions about, among other things, our and eone's business, the amount of revenues and savings that can be generated from moving a significant portion of eone's family brand licensing business in-house, our ability to enhance the profitability of eone's licensing and merchandising activities, the ability of the combined company to employ its enhanced capabilities in television, film and music to grow the overall business and successfully develop and drive branded entertainment, including entertainment based on our brands, and the ability of the combined company to successfully ideate and develop future intellectual property and brand extensions. these estimates and assumptions may be inaccurate and may change materially over time, reducing or eliminating the anticipated financial benefits of the acquisition. further, this expectation is also based on the assumption that we are able to successfully integrate eone's business and operations with our business and operations and that we are able to effectively manage our expanded operations following the acquisition. we may be unable to successfully integrate our and eone's businesses in order to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition within the intended timeframe or at all, and our acquisition of eone will expose us to risks related to eone's business . if we are unable to successfully integrate eone's business and operations with our business and operations, we may be unable to realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition in the timeframe that we expect or at all. any integration issues we face could also have an adverse effect on the combined company for an undetermined period after completion of the acquisition, including by adversely affecting our relationships with customers, consumers, suppliers, employees or other constituencies, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. 30 table of contents difficulties we may encounter as part of the integration process or otherwise after the consummation of the acquisition include the following: the ability to successfully apply capabilities and expertise in certain areas of the business to other areas of the combined business; integration of management teams into a cohesive combined company; differences in business backgrounds and models, corporate cultures and management philosophies; the ability to continue to attract and retain key management and personnel; the ability to create and implement a unified strategy, controls, procedures, policies and information systems; the challenge of integrating complex systems, technology, networks and other assets of eone into those of ours in a manner that minimizes any adverse impact on customers, consumers, suppliers, employees and other constituencies; potential unknown liabilities and unforeseen expenses or delays associated with the acquisition, including costs to integrate eone; and the disruption of, or the loss of momentum in, our ongoing businesses, including the diversion of management's attention away from ongoing business and towards integration matters. in addition, we will also assume risks unique to the nature of eone's business. these risks are described above under - risks related to our business . our results after the consummation of the acquisition may suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations. following the consummation of the acquisition, the size and complexity of our business has increased beyond the current size of our or eone's existing business. our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to successfully manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of a significantly larger brand portfolio and complex organization across many global jurisdictions, additional revenue growth and expanded franchise economics expected as a result of the acquisition. we cannot assure you that we will be successful after completion of the acquisition or that we will realize the expected benefits currently anticipated from the acquisition. the consummation of the acquisition may expose us to unknown liabilities. because we have acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of eone, we have assumed responsibility for all of its liabilities. if there are unknown liabilities or other obligations, including contingent liabilities, our business could be materially affected. as a distributor and producer of media content, eone faces potential liability for causes of action such as defamation, invasion of privacy or other claims based on the nature and content of the materials distributed. we may also learn additional information regarding eone that adversely affects us, such as issues that could affect our ability to comply with the sarbanes-oxley act or issues that could affect our ability to comply with other applicable laws. the combined company will record goodwill and other intangible assets that could become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to the results of operations of the combined company in the future. the acquisition is being accounted for as an acquisition by hasbro in accordance with u.s. gaap. under the acquisition method of accounting, goodwill as of the acquisition date will be measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is generally measured at a fair value, net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed, which are also measured at their fair value. goodwill must be assessed for impairment at least annually or whenever changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable from estimated future cash flows. declines in operating results, divestitures, markets and other factors that may impact the fair value of a reporting unit could result in an impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, and, in turn, a charge to net income. such a charge would have a negative impact on our results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 60 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this form 10-k and is incorporated herein by reference. 60 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 35risk factors 8 risk factors forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected timing of new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. the volatility of ever-evolving consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry, make it difficult to maintain and build upon the success of existing products and product lines or introduce successful new products. in addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. the family entertainment business is a fashion industry and evolves quickly. our success is critically dependent upon the consumer appeal of our products. our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children interests and the current preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our business and profitability. a decline in the popularity of our existing products and product lines, or the failure of our new products and product lines to achieve and sustain interest from retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our revenues and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. in our industry, it is critical to identify and offer what are considered to be the next hot toys and games on children wish lists and to effectively anticipate children evolving entertainment interests. our continued 8 table of contents success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and other entertainment offerings, and license our brands for products which are sought after by both children and their parents. we seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our products through the continued re-imagination, re-invigoration and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways we believe will capture evolving consumer interest and imagination, offer immersive brand experiences and remain relevant in today world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. this process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns, offering continual product innovation and identifying entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children imaginations. however, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumer minds with other properties. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products. in some cases our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products. the challenge of developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children getting older younger . by this we mean that children are expanding their interests beyond traditional toys and games to a wider array of entertainment products at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. there is no guarantee that: any of our current products or product lines will continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; any new product life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product; or we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely and cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. in developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development and implementation work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, or significant increases in the planned cost of development, may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. 9 table of contents delays or increased costs associated with the development and offering of entertainment media based upon or related to our brands, or lack of sufficient consumer interest in such entertainment media, can harm our business. as part of our strategy of offering immersive brand experiences, we look to offer consumers the ability to enjoy our brands in as many different forms and formats as possible. entertainment media, in forms such as motion pictures and television, can provide popular platforms for consumers to experience our brands and the success of such media efforts can significantly impact demand for our products and our financial success. the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of media efforts. television programming, movie and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products and brands. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. similarly, if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. in 2009 we entered into a joint venture with discovery communications, inc. ( discovery ). through that joint venture, we are currently working with discovery to offer a children and family entertainment channel called the hub, which is scheduled to debut in the fall of 2010. in connection with this joint venture effort, we are also building a virtual studio, called hasbro studios, which will develop and produce entertainment media based on our brands. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of the hub, programming appearing on the hub, other programming developed by hasbro studios, and products related to that programming could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with the introduction of the rebranded joint venture network, the development of hasbro studios and the creation of new content based on our brands to appear on the joint venture network and elsewhere. at december 27, 2009, $371,783, or 9.5%, of our total assets represented our investment in the discovery joint venture. if the launch of the rebranded television channel is not successful, or if there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. economic downturns which negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or which otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. the success of our family entertainment products and our financial performance is dependent on consumer purchases of our products. consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination, or because competitor family entertainment offerings are deemed more attractive. but consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumers budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings. recessions and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the markets in which we operate can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues, decrease our operating margins, increase our costs and/or lower our profitability. 10 table of contents other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel or star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 27, 2009, we had $120,115 of prepaid royalties, $43,115 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $77,000 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 27, 2009, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $331,491. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing 11 table of contents business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy or game products. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. among these risks is the fact that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can significantly impact our financial performance. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 27, 2009, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 42% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize 12 table of contents third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur. if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results, reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net sales, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be significantly harmed by exchange rate movements. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 27, 2009, wal-mart stores, inc., target corporation, and toys r us, inc., accounted for approximately 25%, 13% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, target and toys r us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 54% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 74% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. while the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. in addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and result in higher bad debt expense. 13 table of contents our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in the people republic of china. although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations would be disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and harm our business. given that the majority of our manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in the people republic of china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, increases in labor costs and difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports on the western coast of north america, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, the people republic of china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. the global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. part of our strategy for remaining relevant to children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames and consumer electronics, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children electronic toys and games. examples of such products in the last few years include our i-branded products such as i-dog and i-cat, and our furreal friends 14 table of contents line of products, including butterscotch pony, biscuit my lovin pup and kota. these products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. we rely on external financing, including our credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2011, which provides for a $300,000 committed revolving credit facility which provides the company the ability to request increases in the committed facility in additional increments of $50,000, subject to lender agreement, up to a total of $500,000. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. as an additional source of working capital and liquidity, we currently have a $250,000 accounts receivable securitization program. under this program, we sell on an ongoing basis, substantially all of our domestic u.s. dollar denominated trade accounts receivable to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. under this facility, the special purpose entity is able to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided ownership interests in the eligible receivables to bank conduits. during the term of the facility, we must maintain certain performance ratios. if we fail to maintain these ratios, we could be prevented from accessing this cost-effective source of working capital and short-term financing. additionally, changes in financial reporting, regulatory or other requirements which went into effect in 2010 or may occur in the future may significantly increase the cost of our accounts receivable securitization facility, which could make use of such a facility uneconomical. we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility, are adequate for current and planned needs in 2010. however, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well as increases in inventory or accounts receivable that are ineligible for sale under our securitization facility, regulatory or accounting changes which make accounts receivable securitization facilities more expensive or otherwise less desirable as sources of working capital funding, or other future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. 15 table of contents although we believe the risk of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial facilities is not significant, in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 27, 2009, we had $1,134,723 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. this total indebtedness includes $249,828 in aggregate principal amount of 2.75% senior convertible debentures that we issued in 2001. on december 1, 2011 and december 1, 2016, and upon the occurrence of certain fundamental corporate changes, holders of the 2.75% senior convertible debentures may require us to purchase their debentures. at that time, the purchase price may be paid in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of the two, at our discretion, provided that we will pay accrued and unpaid interest in cash. we may not have sufficient cash at that time to make the required repurchases and may be required to settle in shares of common stock. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. 16 table of contents in addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. there can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. however, as of december 27, 2009, we had $554,567 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. in the case of our joint venture with discovery communications, inc., we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory 17 table of contents investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 27, 2009, $475,931, or 12.2%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net earnings caused by the write-down of goodwill or our investment in the joint venture could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 42 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. 8 table of contents the volatility of ever-evolving consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry, make it difficult to achieve, maintain or build upon the success of our brands, products and product lines, or introduce successful new brands and products. in addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new brands, products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. the children and family entertainment business is a trend-driven industry where consumer demands and interests evolve quickly. we may develop products which consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us. similarly, brands or products that were successful at one time may lose consumer interest. our ongoing success is critically dependent upon developing and maintaining the consumer appeal of our brands and products and in our ongoing ability to achieve and maintain market interest in and acceptance of our offerings to a degree that enables those brands and products to be profitable. our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children interests and the current preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our business and profitability. a decline in the popularity of our existing brands, products and product lines, or the failure of our new brands, products and product lines to achieve and sustain sufficient interest from retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our revenues and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. in our industry, it is critical to identify and offer what are considered to be the next hot toys, games and other entertainment offerings on children wish lists and to effectively anticipate children evolving entertainment interests. our continued success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and other entertainment offerings, and license our brands for products which are sought after by both children and their parents, in spite of rapidly evolving consumer tastes. we seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our brands and products through the continued re-imagination, re-invention, re-ignition and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways we believe will capture evolving consumer interest and imagination, offer immersive brand experiences and remain relevant in today world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. this process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns, offering continual product innovation and identifying and developing entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children imaginations and feed the human need for play. however, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate and we may not successfully identify product offerings which are sought after by consumers. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumers minds with other properties. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. in some cases our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products and lower our profitability. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children getting older younger . by this we mean that children are expanding their interests beyond traditional toys and games to a wider array of entertainment products at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies, media and social media companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. 9 table of contents there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product; or we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely and cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. in developing new brands, products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. delays or increased costs associated with the development and offering of entertainment media based upon or related to our brands, or lack of sufficient consumer interest in such entertainment media, can harm our business and profitability. as part of our strategy of offering immersive brand experiences, we look to offer consumers the ability to enjoy our brands in as many different forms and formats as possible. entertainment media, in forms such as motion pictures and television, can provide popular platforms for consumers to experience our brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact demand for our products and our financial success. the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of media efforts. television programming, movie and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products and brands. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. similarly, if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. in 2009 we entered into a joint venture with discovery communications, inc. ( discovery ). through that joint venture, we launched a children and family entertainment channel called the hub in october of 2010. in connection with this joint venture effort, we also developed a wholly-owned studio, called hasbro studios, which is responsible for developing and producing television entertainment media, primarily based on our brands. the television programming developed by hasbro studios is offered in the united states on the hub and will be distributed on other networks internationally. the hub is competing with a number of other children television networks in the united states for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that the hub will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally competes with programming by other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of the hub, programming appearing on the hub, other programming developed by hasbro studios, and products related to that programming could 10 table of contents significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with the development of hasbro studios programming. during 2010 the company incurred $52,047 for programming developed by hasbro studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at increased levels in 2011 and future years. at december 26, 2010, $354,612, or 8.7%, of our total assets represented our investment in the hub. if the hub does not achieve success, or there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. economic downturns which negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or which otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. the success of our family entertainment products and our financial performance is dependent on consumer purchases of our products. consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination, or because competitor family entertainment offerings are deemed more attractive. but consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumers budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings. recessions and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the markets in which we operate can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues, decrease our operating margins, increase our costs and/or lower our profitability. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors 11 table of contents outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel or star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 26, 2010, we had $112,922 of prepaid royalties, $17,922 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $95,000 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 26, 2010, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $287,000. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy or game products. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques 12 table of contents reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. among these risks is the fact that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can significantly impact our financial performance. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 26, 2010, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 46% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. 13 table of contents because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur. if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results, reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net sales, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be significantly harmed by exchange rate movements. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 26, 2010, wal-mart stores, inc., target corporation, and toys r us, inc., accounted for approximately 23%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, target and toys r us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 50% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 71% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. while the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. in addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and result in higher bad debt expense. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in china. although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations would be disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and harm our business. given that the majority of our manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortage and increases in labor costs in china, and difficulties in moving 14 table of contents products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports on the western coast of north america, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. the global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our employees. our employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work which drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in hiring and retaining our employees. although we continuously seek to develop our employees, challenge them and compensate them fairly, there is no guarantee that we will be able to hire or retain the employees we need to succeed. our loss of key employees, or our inability to hire talented employees we need, could significantly harm our business. part of our strategy for remaining relevant to children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames, consumer electronics and social media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children electronic toys and games. examples of such products in the last few years include our i-branded products such as i-dog and i-cat, and our furreal friends line of products, including butterscotch pony and biscuit my lovin pup. in 2011 we are offering games based on our innovative live platform and our most realistic member of the furreal friends line to date, cookie, my playful pup. these products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our 15 table of contents costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2014, which provides for a $500,000 committed revolving credit facility. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. in early 2011 we established a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, will allow us to issue up to $500,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. we did not renew our accounts receivable securitization facility in january 2011 as we believe issuing commercial paper can be a more cost effective way for us to raise short-term funding in the future. however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities or our commercial paper program, are adequate for current and planned needs in 2011. however, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, or other future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. although we believe the risk of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial facilities is not significant, in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 26, 2010, we had $1,384,895 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to 16 table of contents refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. in addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. there can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. however, as of december 26, 2010, we had $500,597 of acquired product and 17 table of contents licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 26, 2010, $474,813, or 11.6%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net earnings caused by the write-down of goodwill or our investment in the joint venture could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 41 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as anticipated financial performance, business prospects, technological developments, new products, the timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. 8 table of contents volatility of consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry make it difficult to maintain the long-term success of existing product lines or consistently introduce successful new products. in addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new products and product lines in a timely manner may damage our business. the family entertainment business is a fashion industry. our success is critically dependent upon the consumer appeal of our products, principally games and toys. our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children interests and the preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our profitability. a decline in the popularity of our existing products and product lines, or the failure of our new products and product lines to achieve and sustain market acceptance, could significantly lower our sales and operating margins, which would harm our profitability, business and financial condition. in our industry, it is important to identify and offer what are considered to be the hot toys and games on children wish lists. our continued success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and children electronic products which are sought after by both children and their parents. we seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our products through the redesign and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways that capture consumer interest and imagination and remain relevant in today world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. this process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns and identifying entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children imaginations. however, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. individual family entertainment products and properties generally, and high technology products in particular, often have short consumer life cycles. not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. new participants with a popular product idea or property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products. the challenge of developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children getting older younger . by this we mean that children are losing interest in traditional toys at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties released theatrically for which we have a license, such as star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of ownership rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. there is no guarantee that: 1) any of our current products or product lines will continue to be popular; 2) any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; 3) any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; 9 table of contents 4) any new product life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing and selling the product; or 5) we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. in developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development and implementation work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, or significant increases in the planned cost of development, may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. similarly, the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of related advertising and media efforts. television programming, movie and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday season. further, this seasonality is increasing, as large retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality is increasing, as large retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. these customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce a majority of retail sales occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year to meet consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such 10 table of contents as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. the continuing consolidation of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 25, 2005, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc., and target corporation accounted for approximately 24%, 12% and 12%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated net revenues. while the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. in addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and bad debt expense. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if sales revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. an important part of our business involves obtaining licenses to produce products based on various theatrical releases, such as star wars movies. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of such amounts that would harm our results of operations. at december 25, 2005, we had $126,515 of prepaid royalties, $37,107 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $89,408 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 25, 2005, we are required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $66,770. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. as a licensee, we have no guaranty that a particular brand will translate into successful toy or game products. in addition to contracts existing as of the end of our 2005 fiscal year, in january 2006, we entered into a license arrangement with marvel entertainment, inc., and its subsidiary marvel characters, inc. this license arrangement, which grants us the right to produce certain products based on marvel characters for five years for retail sales beginning in 2007, requires us to make guaranteed minimum payments in the amount of up to $205,000. there is no guarantee that we will sell enough licensed merchandise under the agreement to earn-out the $205,000 in guaranteed payments and make a profit. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases will make it increasingly difficult for us to sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain advantageous licenses, our revenues and profits may be harmed. 11 table of contents our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 25, 2005, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 40% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. additionally, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: 1) currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; 2) limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; 3) political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; 4) greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; 5) complications in complying with laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; 6) natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; 7) transportation delays and interruptions; and 8) the imposition of tariffs. our reliance on external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary. however, if we were prevented from obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted while alternative sources of products were secured. in particular, as the majority of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured in the people republic of china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, could have a significant negative impact on our operations. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, or increases in labor costs and difficulties in moving products manufactured in the far east through the ports on the western coast of north america. also, the imposition of trade sanctions by the united states or the european union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, the people republic of china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur. part of our strategy for remaining relevant to older children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, increasing sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames and consumer electronics, at younger and younger ages, we have needed to work even harder to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have been pursuing to capture the interest of older children is to offer innovative children electronic toys and games. examples of such products in the last few years include videonow, chatnow, mission paintball and i-dog. these products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with tween consumers and increase 12 table of contents sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter. market conditions, including commodity and fuel prices, public health conditions and other third party conduct could negatively impact our margins and our other business initiatives. economic and public health conditions, including factors that impact the strength of the retail market and retail demand, or our ability to manufacture and deliver products, can have a significant impact on our business. the success of our family entertainment products is dependant on consumer purchasing of those products. consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination. but consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumer budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline and home heating fuels, may reduce household spending on entertainment products we offer. in addition, rising fuel and raw material prices, for components such as resin, or increased transportation costs, may increase our costs for producing and transporting our products, which in turn may reduce our margins and harm our business. in addition, general economic conditions and employment levels can impact demand for our products. economic conditions were significantly harmed by the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and could be similarly affected by any future attacks. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our sales and profitability. other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could delay or increase the cost of implementing our business initiatives and product plans or alter our actions and reduce actual results. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product, resulting in increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our income. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. as of december 25, 2005, we had approximately $609,678 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and 13 table of contents could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net income caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. although we have not made any major acquisitions in the last few years, acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the product lines of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject from time to time to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. we rely on external financing, including our credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization facility, to fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have an amended and restated revolving credit agreement, which provides for a $350,000 revolving credit facility. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth minimum cash flow and coverage requirements, and a number of other limitations, including restrictions on capital expenditures, investments, acquisitions, share repurchases, incurrence of indebtedness and dividend payments. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. if we were unable to meet our financial covenants, or if we failed to comply with other covenants in our credit facility, we could face significant negative consequences, including loss of the ability to raise capital under these facilities to fund our operations. as an additional source of working capital and liquidity, we currently have a $250,000 accounts receivable securitization program. under this program, we sell on an ongoing basis, substantially all of our u.s. dollar denominated trade accounts receivable to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. under this facility, the special purpose entity is able to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided ownership interests in the eligible receivables to bank conduits. during the term of the facility, we must maintain certain performance ratios. if we fail to maintain these ratios, we could be prevented from accessing this cost-effective source of working capital and short-term financing. we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility, are adequate for current and planned needs 14 table of contents in 2006. however, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well as increases in inventory or accounts receivable that are ineligible for sale under our securitization facility, or future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 25, 2005, we had approximately $527.7 million of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. this total indebtedness includes $249,996 in aggregate principal amount of 2.75% senior convertible debentures that we issued in 2001. on december 1, 2011 and december 1, 2016, and upon the occurrence of certain fundamental corporate changes, holders of the 2.75% senior convertible debentures may require us to purchase their debentures. at that time, the purchase price may be paid in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of the two, at our discretion, provided that we will pay accrued and unpaid interest in cash. we may not have sufficient cash at that time to make the required repurchases and may be required to settle in shares of common stock. we previously issued warrants that provide the holder with an option through january 2008 to sell all of these warrants to us for a price to be paid, at our election, of either $100,000 in cash or $110,000 in our common stock, such stock being valued at the time of the exercise of the option. should we be required to settle these warrants under this option, we believe that we will have adequate funds to settle in cash if necessary. however, we may not have sufficient funds at that time to make the required payment and may be required to settle the warrants in stock. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations, violation of which could subject us to sanctions. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. there can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. while we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe sufficient for our business risks, we may not be able to maintain such coverage or such coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. moreover, even if we maintain sufficient insurance coverage, any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations and the foreign corrupt 15 table of contents practices act. our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could harm our business and financial condition. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. at december 25, 2005, approximately $467,061 or 14.1%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a further write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net income caused by the write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 37 table of contentsrisk factors risk factors forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological developments, the 7 table of contents expected timing of new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. volatility of consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry make it difficult to maintain the success of existing product lines or consistently introduce successful new products. in addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. the family entertainment business is a fashion industry. our success is critically dependent upon the consumer appeal of our products, principally games and toys. our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children interests and the current preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our profitability. a decline in the popularity of our existing products and product lines, or the failure of our new products and product lines to achieve and sustain market acceptance with retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our sales and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. in our industry, it is important to identify and offer what are considered to be the hot toys and games on children wish lists . our continued success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and children electronic products which are sought after by both children and their parents. we seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our products through the redesign and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways we believe will capture evolving consumer interest and imagination and remain relevant in today world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. this process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns and identifying entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children imaginations. however, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, creates an environment in which products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumer minds with other properties. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties generally, and high technology products in particular, often have short consumer life cycles. not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. new participants with a popular product idea or property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products. in some cases our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products. the challenge of developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children getting older younger . by this we mean that children are losing interest in traditional toys at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of 8 table of contents video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties released theatrically for which we have a license, such as marvel or star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of ownership rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. there is no guarantee that: any of our current products or product lines will continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; any new product life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing and selling the product; or we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely and cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. in developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development and implementation work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, or significant increases in the planned cost of development, may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. similarly, the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of related advertising and media efforts. television programming, movie and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday season. this seasonality is exacerbated as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. these customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales occur in the 9 table of contents fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year to meet consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. the continuing consolidation of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2006, wal-mart stores, inc., target corporation, and toys r us, inc., accounted for approximately 24%, 13% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, target and toys r us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 53% of our consolidated net revenues. these net revenues were primarily related to the north american segment. while the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. in addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and bad debt expense. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if sales revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. an important part of our business involves obtaining licenses to produce products based on various entertainment properties and theatrical releases, such as those based upon marvel or star wars characters. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 31, 2006, we had $181,561 of prepaid royalties, $116,792 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $64,769 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 31, 2006, we may be required to pay future minimum 10 table of contents guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $164,780. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy or game products. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases will make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 31, 2006, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 40% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. additionally, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions, which laws may dictate that certain practices which are acceptable in some jurisdictions are not acceptable in others, and changes in governmental policies; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs. our reliance on external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary. however, if we were prevented from obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of products were secured. in particular, as the majority of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured in the people republic of china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, and the labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, increases in labor costs and difficulties in moving products manufactured in the far east through the ports on the western coast of north america, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes or other factors. also, the imposition of trade sanctions by the united states or the european union against a class of products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status 11 table of contents with, the people republic of china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur. part of our strategy for remaining relevant to older children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, increasing sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames and consumer electronics, at younger and younger ages, we have needed to work even harder to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have been pursuing to capture the interest of older children is to offer innovative children electronic toys and games. examples of such products in the last few years include videonow, chatnow, zoombox, our i-branded products such as i-dog and i-cat, and our furreal friends line of products, including butterscotch. these products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter. market conditions, including commodity and fuel prices, public health conditions and other third party conduct could negatively impact our revenues, margins and our other business initiatives. economic and public health conditions, including factors that impact the strength of the retail market and retail demand, or our ability to manufacture and deliver products, can have a significant impact on our business. the success of our family entertainment products is dependent on consumer purchasing of those products. consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination or because competitor family entertainment offerings are deemed more attractive. but consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumers budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline and home heating fuels, may reduce household spending on entertainment products we offer. in addition, rising fuel and raw material prices, for components such as resin used in plastics, or increased transportation costs, may increase our costs for producing and transporting our products, which in turn may reduce our margins and harm our business. in addition, general economic conditions and employment levels can impact demand for our products. economic conditions were significantly harmed by the september 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and could be similarly affected by any future attacks. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our sales and profitability. other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could delay or increase the cost of implementing our business initiatives and product plans or alter our 12 table of contents actions and reduce actual results. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, a severe public health pandemic or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product, resulting in increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our income. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. however, as of december 31, 2006, we had approximately $532,257 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net income caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. although we have not made any major acquisitions in the last few years, acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products. we may also target companies in markets where we would like to increase our local presence. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that we will be successful in a particular geographic region. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the product lines of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject from time to time to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. 13 table of contents we rely on external financing, including our credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization facility, to fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a five-year revolving credit agreement, which provides for a $300,000 committed revolving credit facility which provides the company the ability to request increases in the committed facility in additional increments of $50,000, up to a total of $500,000. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. as an additional source of working capital and liquidity, we currently have a $250,000 accounts receivable securitization program, which is increased to $300,000 from fiscal october through fiscal january. under this program, we sell on an ongoing basis, substantially all of our u.s. dollar denominated trade accounts receivable to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. under this facility, the special purpose entity is able to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided ownership interests in the eligible receivables to bank conduits. during the term of the facility, we must maintain certain performance ratios. if we fail to maintain these ratios, we could be prevented from accessing this cost-effective source of working capital and short-term financing. we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility, are adequate for current and planned needs in 2007. however, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well as increases in inventory or accounts receivable that are ineligible for sale under our securitization facility, or future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 31, 2006, we had $494,983 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. this total indebtedness includes $249,996 in aggregate principal amount of 2.75% senior convertible debentures that we issued in 2001. on december 1, 2011 and december 1, 2016, and upon the occurrence of certain fundamental corporate changes, holders of the 2.75% senior convertible debentures may require us to purchase their debentures. at that time, the purchase price may be paid in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of the two, at our discretion, provided that we will pay accrued and unpaid 14 table of contents interest in cash. we may not have sufficient cash at that time to make the required repurchases and may be required to settle in shares of common stock. we previously issued warrants that provide the holder with an option through january 2008 to sell all of these warrants to us for a price to be paid, at our election, of either $100,000 in cash or $110,000 in our common stock, such stock being valued at the time of the exercise of the option. should we be required to settle these warrants under this option, we believe that we will have adequate funds to settle in cash if necessary. however, we may not have sufficient funds at that time to make the required payment and may be required to settle the warrants in stock. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations, violation of which could subject us to sanctions. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future sales and results of operations. in addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. there can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. while we currently maintain product liability insurance coverage in amounts we believe sufficient for our business risks, we may not be able to maintain such coverage or such coverage may not be adequate to cover all potential claims. moreover, even if we maintain sufficient insurance coverage, any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could harm our business and financial condition. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. at december 31, 2006, approximately $469,938 or 15.2%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net income caused by the write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected timing of new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. 7 table of contents the volatility of consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry make it difficult to maintain the success of existing products and product lines or consistently introduce successful new products. in addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. the family entertainment business is a fashion industry. our success is critically dependent upon the consumer appeal of our products, principally games and toys. our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children interests and the current preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our sales and profitability. a decline in the popularity of our existing products and product lines, or the failure of our new products and product lines to achieve and sustain market acceptance with retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our sales and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. in our industry, it is important to identify and offer what are considered to be the hot toys and games on children wish lists . our continued success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys, games and children electronic products which are sought after by both children and their parents. we seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our products through the redesign and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways we believe will capture evolving consumer interest and imagination and remain relevant in today world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. this process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns and identifying entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children imaginations. however, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, creates an environment in which products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumer minds with other properties. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties generally, and high technology products in particular, often have short consumer life cycles. not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. new participants with a popular product idea or property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products. in some cases our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products. the challenge of developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children getting older younger . by this we mean that children are losing interest in traditional toys and games at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties released theatrically for which we have a license, such as marvel or star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. 8 table of contents there is no guarantee that: any of our current products or product lines will continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; any new product life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing and selling the product; or we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely and cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. in developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development and implementation work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, or significant increases in the planned cost of development, may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. similarly, the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of related advertising and media efforts. television programming, movie and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. these customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season 9 table of contents in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. the consolidation of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2007, wal-mart stores, inc., target corporation, and toys r us, inc., accounted for approximately 24%, 12% and 11%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, target and toys r us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 52% of our consolidated net revenues. in the north american segment, approximately 70% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. while the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. in addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and bad debt expense. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if sales revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. an important part of our business involves obtaining licenses to produce products based on various entertainment properties and theatrical releases, such as those based upon marvel or star wars characters. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 30, 2007, we had $137,959 of prepaid royalties, $94,616 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $43,343 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 30, 2007, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $87,815. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy or game products. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases will make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. 10 table of contents our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in the people republic of china. although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. this delay could significantly reduce our sales and profitability, and harm our business. given that the majority of our manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in the people republic of china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, increases in labor costs and difficulties in moving products manufactured in the far east out of the far east and through the ports on the western coast of north america, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, the people republic of china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. the global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 30, 2007, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 42% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. additionally, as we discussed above, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; 11 table of contents political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions, which laws may dictate that certain practices which are acceptable in some jurisdictions are not acceptable in others, and changes in governmental policies; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur. market conditions, including commodity and fuel prices, public health conditions and other third party conduct could negatively impact our revenues, margins and our other business initiatives. economic and public health conditions, including factors that impact the strength of the retail market and retail demand, or our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, can have a significant impact on our business. the success of our family entertainment products is dependent on consumer purchasing of those products. consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination or because competitor family entertainment offerings are deemed more attractive. but consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumers budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline and home heating fuels, may reduce household spending on discretionary entertainment products we offer. in addition, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our sales and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for profitable sales. rising fuel and raw material prices, for components such as resin used in plastics, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase our costs for producing and transporting our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could delay or increase the cost of implementing our business initiatives and product plans or alter our actions and reduce actual results. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, a severe public health pandemic or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product, resulting in increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. 12 table of contents part of our strategy for remaining relevant to older children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, increasing sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames and consumer electronics, at younger and younger ages, we have needed to work even harder to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have been pursuing to capture the interest of older children is to offer innovative children electronic toys and games. examples of such products in the last few years include videonow, chatnow, zoombox, our i-branded products such as i-dog and i-cat, and our furreal friends line of products, including butterscotch. these products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future sales and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. in addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. there can 13 table of contents be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our income. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. as of december 30, 2007, we had approximately $486,232 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net income caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. although we have not made any major acquisitions in the last few years, acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the product lines of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will continue to develop popular and profitable products or services. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject from time to time to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. 14 table of contents we rely on external financing, including our credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a five-year revolving credit agreement, which provides for a $300,000 committed revolving credit facility which provides the company the ability to request increases in the committed facility in additional increments of $50,000, up to a total of $500,000. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. as an additional source of working capital and liquidity, we currently have a $250,000 accounts receivable securitization program, which is increased to $300,000 for the period from fiscal october through fiscal january. under this program, we sell on an ongoing basis, substantially all of our domestic u.s. dollar denominated trade accounts receivable to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. under this facility, the special purpose entity is able to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided ownership interests in the eligible receivables to bank conduits. during the term of the facility, we must maintain certain performance ratios. if we fail to maintain these ratios, we could be prevented from accessing this cost-effective source of working capital and short-term financing. we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility, are adequate for current and planned needs in 2008. however, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well as increases in inventory or accounts receivable that are ineligible for sale under our securitization facility, or future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 30, 2007, we had $844,815 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding, of which $135,092 is due in july 2008. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. this total indebtedness includes $249,828 in aggregate principal amount of 2.75% senior convertible debentures that we issued in 2001. on december 1, 2011 and december 1, 2016, and upon the occurrence of certain fundamental corporate changes, holders of the 2.75% senior convertible debentures may require us to purchase their debentures. at that time, the purchase price may be paid in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of the two, at our discretion, provided 15 table of contents that we will pay accrued and unpaid interest in cash. we may not have sufficient cash at that time to make the required repurchases and may be required to settle in shares of common stock. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net income. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition accounted for using the purchase method exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. at december 30, 2007, approximately $471,177 or 14.6%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net income caused by the write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 37 table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected timing of new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the timing of entertainment releases, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. the volatility of consumer preferences, combined with the high level of competition and low barriers to entry in the family entertainment industry, make it difficult to maintain the success of existing products and product lines or introduce successful new products. in addition, an inability to develop and introduce planned new products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. the family entertainment business is a fashion industry. our success is critically dependent upon the consumer appeal of our products, principally games and toys. our failure to successfully anticipate, identify and react to children interests and the current preferences in family entertainment could significantly lower sales of our products and harm our sales and profitability. a decline in the popularity of our existing products and product lines, or the failure of our new products and product lines to achieve and sustain market acceptance with retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our revenues and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. in our industry, it is important to identify and offer what are considered to be the hot toys and games on children wish lists . our continued success will depend on our ability to develop, market and sell popular toys and games and license our brands for products which are sought after by both children and their parents. we seek to achieve and maintain market popularity for our products through the redesign and extension of our existing family entertainment properties in ways we believe will capture evolving consumer interest and imagination and remain relevant in today world, and by developing, introducing and gaining customer interest for new family entertainment products. this process involves anticipating and extending successful play patterns and identifying entertainment concepts and properties that appeal to children imaginations. however, consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment properties and products which compete for consumer interest and acceptance, creates an environment in which products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumer minds with other properties. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. not only must we address rapidly changing consumer tastes and interests but we face competitors who are also constantly monitoring consumer tastes, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the 8 table of contents barriers to entry for new participants in the family entertainment industry are low. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products. in some cases our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products. the challenge of developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the trend of children getting older younger . by this we mean that children are losing interest in traditional toys and games at younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. there is no guarantee that: any of our current products or product lines will continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; any new product life cycle will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product; or we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely and cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands, a risk that is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. in developing new products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development and implementation work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, or significant increases in the planned cost of development, may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. similarly, the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of related advertising and media efforts. television programming, movie and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the launch dates and success of these media efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. economic downturns which negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or which otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. the success of our family entertainment products and our financial performance is dependent on consumer purchases of our products. consumers may not purchase our products because the products do not capture consumer interest and imagination, or because competitor family entertainment offerings are deemed more attractive. but consumer spending on our products can also be harmed by factors that negatively impact consumers budgets generally, and which are not due to our product offerings. recessions and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the markets in which we operate can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable 9 table of contents income, and lower consumer confidence. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues, decrease our operating margins, increase our costs and/or lower our profitability. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of sars or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for profitable revenues. rising fuel and raw material prices, for components such as resin used in plastics, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of sars or another severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by other parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties released theatrically for which we have a license, such as marvel or star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. 10 table of contents the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 28, 2008, we had $71,000 of prepaid royalties, $44,300 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $26,700 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 28, 2008, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $57,818. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy or game products. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases will make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. these customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. 11 table of contents our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. among these risks is the fact that fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can significantly impact our financial performance. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 28, 2008, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 42% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and changes in governmental policies; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur. if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results, reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net sales, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be significantly harmed by exchange rate movements. the consolidation of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing policies of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 28, 2008, wal-mart stores, inc., target corporation, and toys r us, inc., accounted for approximately 25%, 12% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, target and toys r us, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 52% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 71% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. while the consolidation of our customer base may provide certain benefits to us, such as potentially more efficient product distribution and other decreased costs of sales and distribution, this consolidation also means that if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce 12 table of contents the amount of their purchases from us or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. in addition, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and bad debt expense. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in the people republic of china. although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, labor or other factors beyond our control, our operations would be disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and harm our business. given that the majority of our manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in the people republic of china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, increases in labor costs and difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports on the western coast of north america, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, the people republic of china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. the global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. 13 table of contents part of our strategy for remaining relevant to older children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames and consumer electronics, at younger and younger ages, we have needed to work even harder to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of older children is to offer innovative children electronic toys and games. examples of such products in the last few years include videonow, chatnow, zoombox, our i-branded products such as i-dog and i-cat, and our furreal friends line of products, including butterscotch, biscuit and kota. these products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter. we rely on external financing, including our credit facilities and accounts receivable securitization facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2011, which provides for a $300,000 committed revolving credit facility which provides the company the ability to request increases in the committed facility in additional increments of $50,000, subject to lender agreement, up to a total of $500,000. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. as an additional source of working capital and liquidity, we currently have a $250,000 accounts receivable securitization program, which is increased to $300,000 for the period from fiscal october through fiscal january. under this program, we sell on an ongoing basis, substantially all of our domestic u.s. dollar denominated trade accounts receivable to a bankruptcy remote special purpose entity. under this facility, the special purpose entity is able to sell, on a revolving basis, undivided ownership interests in the eligible receivables to bank conduits. during the term of the facility, we must maintain certain performance ratios. if we fail to maintain these ratios, we could be prevented from accessing this cost-effective source of working capital and short-term financing. we believe that our cash flow from operations, together with our cash on hand and access to existing credit facilities and our accounts receivable securitization facility, are adequate for current and planned needs 14 table of contents in 2009. however, our actual experience may differ from these expectations. factors that may lead to a difference include, but are not limited to, the matters discussed herein, as well as future events that might have the effect of reducing our available cash balance, such as unexpected material operating losses or increased capital or other expenditures, as well as increases in inventory or accounts receivable that are ineligible for sale under our securitization facility, or future events that may reduce or eliminate the availability of external financial resources. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. although we believe the risk of nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial facilities is not significant, in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 28, 2008, we had $709,723 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. this total indebtedness includes $249,828 in aggregate principal amount of 2.75% senior convertible debentures that we issued in 2001. on december 1, 2011 and december 1, 2016, and upon the occurrence of certain fundamental corporate changes, holders of the 2.75% senior convertible debentures may require us to purchase their debentures. at that time, the purchase price may be paid in cash, shares of common stock or a combination of the two, at our discretion, provided that we will pay accrued and unpaid interest in cash. we may not have sufficient cash at that time to make the required repurchases and may be required to settle in shares of common stock. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance in the future. failure to comply could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually and in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. 15 table of contents governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. in addition to government regulation, products that have been or may be developed by us may expose us to potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of such products. there can be no assurance that a claim will not be brought against us in the future. any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, are of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. however, as of december 28, 2008, we had $568,412 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of future acquisitions or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that any such acquired companies will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. 16 table of contents from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject from time to time to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. current accounting standards require that goodwill no longer be amortized but instead be periodically evaluated for impairment based on the fair value of the reporting unit. at december 28, 2008, approximately $474,497 or 15.0%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net earnings caused by the write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 39 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 39 table of contentsquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 37quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 40 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskquantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 42 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market riskrisk factors 10 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures and television; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. the volatility of changing consumer interests makes it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families. the children and family entertainment business is one in which consumer interests evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful requires properly anticipating what content, properties and products will capture children and families interests and imagination, and then quickly developing and marketing products to meet those interests. critical to this process is understanding market insights that drive product popularity and providing innovative product offerings which can compete successfully against many other products for consumers limited time, attention and spending. our performance depends on our successful ability to develop, market and sell innovative toys, games and other entertainment offerings, and license our brands for products which are sought after by consumers, including both children and their parents. we need to do this in an environment of rapidly evolving consumer tastes and increasing utilization of technology and digital media in product offerings. consumer preferences with respect to family entertainment are continuously changing and are difficult to anticipate. we may not successfully identify, design and market product offerings which are sought after by consumers. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for 10 table of contents children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be extremely popular during a certain period in time but then rapidly be replaced in consumers minds with other properties. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing entertainment and consumer products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us, our sales and profits will decline and our business performance will be damaged. similarly, brands or products that were successful at one time may lose consumer interest over time as tastes change and product innovation continues. our success is critically dependent upon developing and maintaining the consumer appeal of our brands and products and in our ongoing ability to achieve and maintain market interest in and acceptance of our offerings to a degree that enables those brands and products to be profitable. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our entertainment and consumer product offerings by consumers in diverse markets outside of the united states. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in different markets and geographies and to design product offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. a decline in the popularity of our existing brands, products and product lines, or the failure of our new brands, products and product lines to achieve and sustain sufficient interest from retailers and consumers, could significantly lower our revenues and operating margins, which would in turn harm our profitability, business and financial condition. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the incredible array of entertainment offerings available to them. children are expanding their interests beyond traditional toys and games to a wider array of innovative, technology driven entertainment products at younger and younger ages and, as a result, at younger and younger ages, our products compete with the offerings of video game suppliers, consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies, and other businesses outside of the traditional toy and game industry. there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. an inability to develop and introduce planned new brands, products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing new brands, products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. 11 table of contents the children and family entertainment industry is highly competitive and there are low barriers to entry. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors our sales, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete domestically and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of toys, games, video games, digital media and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers. we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer purchasing. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. in some cases our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our sales and lower our profitability. delays or increased costs associated with the development and offering of entertainment media based upon or related to our brands, or lack of sufficient consumer interest in such entertainment media, can harm our business and profitability. as part of our strategy of offering immersive branded play experiences, we look to offer consumers the ability to enjoy our brands in as many different forms and formats as possible. entertainment media, in forms such as motion pictures and television, can provide popular platforms for consumers to experience our brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial success. the success of our products is often dependent on the timelines and effectiveness of media efforts by us and our partners. television programming, motion picture and dvd releases, comic book releases, and other media efforts are often critical in generating interest in our products and brands and we spend considerable amounts of time and sums of money in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. for example, development and release of motion pictures based on our brands involves working extremely closely with our studio partners in indentifying projects, developing them, and scheduling them for release. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our studio partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit or released. this can make it difficult for us to plan our future movie slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. even when motion pictures, television or other media is developed and released, consumers may not be as interested in that media, and in any associated products, as we had anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts, given the broad array of competing offerings. if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. 12 table of contents in 2009 we entered into a joint venture with discovery communications, inc. through that joint venture, we launched a children and family entertainment channel called the hub in october of 2010. in connection with this joint venture effort, we also developed a wholly-owned studio, called hasbro studios, which is responsible for developing and producing television entertainment media, based on our owned and licensed brands. the television programming developed by hasbro studios is offered in the united states on the hub and is distributed on other networks internationally. the hub is competing with a number of other children television networks in the united states for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that the hub will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally competes with programming from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of programming developed by hasbro studios or other programming appearing on the hub, and products related to that programming, could significantly harm our business, particularly given that we are investing significant sums of money developing that programming. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in the hub, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for the hub. during 2011 the company incurred $80,983 for programming developed by hasbro studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at comparable levels in 2012 and future years. at december 25, 2011, $343,835, or 8.3%, of our total assets represented our investment in the hub. if the hub does not achieve success, or there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. u.s., global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending. recessions and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the u.s. and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. given the difficult economic conditions in the united states over the past few years, we have been challenged in our efforts to grow our u.s. business and improve its profitability. as long as economic conditions in the u.s. remain difficult, this will be an additional challenge we must face and overcome if we are to succeed in our efforts at growing this business. similarly, while our european business has grown significantly in recent years, our future success in europe is dependent upon economic conditions in europe. a european sovereign debt crisis or other significant negative shock to european markets could lead to a recession in europe, which would negatively impact consumers and in turn, sales of our products in the european markets. 13 table of contents other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our sales, profitability and our business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded play entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 25, 2011, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 50% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east, to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations, including taxes, on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies; 14 table of contents difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and expense in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different foreign currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results, reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net sales, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as beyblade, marvel, sesame street or star wars related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the loss of rights granted pursuant to any of our licensing agreements could harm our business and competitive position. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 25, 2011, we had $134,730 of prepaid royalties, $16,788 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $117,942 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 25, 2011, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $235,000. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. 15 table of contents we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales, resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully capture consumer interest in the product. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events, such as a terrorist attack or economic shock, that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events, such as strikes or port delays, that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday purchasing season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 25, 2011, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 20%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 45% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 68% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote 16 table of contents our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and result in higher bad debt expense. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two game and puzzle manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our toy products, in addition to certain other products, are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in the people republic of china. although our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary, if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations would be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time, while alternative sources of supply were secured. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability, and harm our business. given that the majority of our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china, and difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, hasbro requires that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. 17 table of contents greater than expected costs or difficulties associated with the implementation of our plan to reinvent our gaming business may harm our revenues and profitability. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, in 2011 we began implementing a ten point strategy to reinvent our gaming business. the objective of this plan is to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow in 2013 and beyond. as part of executing this strategy, in the second quarter of 2011 we announced our creation of a gaming center of excellence in rhode island. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. we also are designing our gaming products to recognize the need to provide immersive game-play in shorter periods of time, and to offer innovative face to face and off the board gaming opportunities. our failure to successfully implement our strategy to reinvent our gaming business and to otherwise stabilize and grow our gaming business in the future could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our global gaming strategy. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our branded play efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people we need in the future, could significantly harm our business. part of our strategy for remaining relevant to children is to offer innovative children toy and game electronic products incorporating greater technology. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have a shorter lifespan than more traditional toys and games. as a result, sales of children toy and game electronic products may lower our overall operating margins and produce more volatility in our business. as children have grown older younger and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as videogames, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. examples of such products in the last few years include our furreal friends line of products, including cookie-my playful pup, butterscotch pony and biscuit-my lovin pup. increasing the marriage between digital and analog gaming and increasing the technology in our gaming products is another key for our future strategy. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronics, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of electronic products tend to be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics area is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. 18 table of contents we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2014, which provides for a $500,000 committed revolving credit facility. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions, and financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. in early 2011 we established a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, will allow us to issue up to $500,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 25, 2011, we had $1,384,895 of total principal amount of indebtedness outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance, and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product 19 table of contents recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year, could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future, and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the u.s. and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the u.s. and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. however, as of december 25, 2011, we had $467,293 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions have been a significant part of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, in the future will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their 20 table of contents realization. in other cases, we acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies will continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they will develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. failure to operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications, to manage many aspects of our business, including management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products and various other process transactions. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business and also contains certain customer and consumer data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, our consumers, or ourselves could have a negative effect on our business. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant expense for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 25, 2011, $474,792, or 11.5%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill. reductions in our net earnings caused by the write-down of goodwill could harm our results of operations. 21 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 44 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 44 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures and television; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. 10 table of contents consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will be damaged. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our entertainment and consumer product offerings by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of entertainment offerings available to them. children are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to combine digital and analog play, and capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. the children and family entertainment industry is highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers. we face competitors who 11 table of contents are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. an inability to develop and introduce planned new brands, products and product lines in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing new brands, products and product lines, we have anticipated dates for the associated product introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product or product line at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product introduction to be discontinued. united states, global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. 12 table of contents challenging market conditions in certain developed markets, such as in the united states and certain western european countries, make it more difficult for us to succeed. our future success in the united states and europe is impacted by market conditions. a european sovereign debt crisis or other significant negative shock to european markets could lead to a recession in europe, which may negatively impact consumers and in turn, sales of our products in the european markets. similar negative events impacting the market in the united states may harm our business. many components of the toy, game and family entertainment industries in the united states and certain western european countries, have not grown, or in some cases have even contracted, in recent years. these markets represent a majority of our current product sales. it is more difficult for us to grow, or even maintain, our business when the overall market in certain of the major countries we serve is not growing. to succeed in a market that is stable or contracting, we must gain market share from our competitors, which is more difficult than growing in an expanding market. as long as economic conditions in the united states and certain european markets remain difficult, this will be an additional challenge we must face and overcome. loss of a significant licensed property could harm our business. in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel, star wars, beyblade and sesame street. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel, star wars, beyblade and sesame street licenses have been highly significant to our business. if any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. delays or increased costs associated with the development and offering of entertainment media based upon or related to our brands, can harm our business and profitability. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, dvd releases and other media, can provide popular platforms for consumers to experience our owned and licensed brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial success. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates. this can make it difficult for us to plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. 13 table of contents lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television or other media for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. the hub, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that the hub will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally competes with programming from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of programming developed by hasbro studios, or other programming appearing on the hub, and products related to that programming, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in the hub, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for the hub. during 2012 the company paid $59,277 for programming developed by hasbro studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at comparable levels in 2013 and future years. at december 30, 2012, $330,746, or 7.6%, of our total assets represented our investment in the hub. if the hub does not achieve success, or if there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating greater technology and which marry digital and analog play. the margins on many of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have short lifespans. as children have grown older younger and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. increasing the marriage between digital and analog gaming and increasing the technology in our gaming products is another key for our future strategy. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products, or products that marry digital and analog technology, tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of these products can be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. 14 table of contents other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded play entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 30, 2012, our net revenues from international customers comprised approximately 50% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located principally in the far east to produce the majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies; 15 table of contents difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, beyblade or sesame street related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 30, 2012, we had $163,875 of prepaid royalties, $86,361 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $77,514 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 30, 2012, we may be required to pay future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $227,000. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. 16 table of contents we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the limited inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional product to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our underproducing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2012, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 17%, 11% and 10%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 42% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 64% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of 17 table of contents their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the majority of our toy products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, most of whom are located in the people republic of china ( china ). although, our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply, should such changes be necessary. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that the majority of our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. 18 table of contents difficulties associated with the implementation of our plan to reinvent our gaming business may harm our revenues and profitability. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. the objective of this plan was to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow in 2013 and beyond. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. we also are designing our gaming products to recognize the need to provide immersive game play in shorter periods of time, and to offer innovative face to face and off the board gaming opportunities. our failure to successfully implement our strategy to reinvent our gaming business and to otherwise stabilize and grow our gaming business in the future could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. there can be no assurance that we will successfully implement our global gaming strategy. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our branded play efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people we need in the future, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. to improve our profitability and competitiveness, in the fourth quarter of 2012 we implemented a global cost savings initiative. the objective of this initiative is to reduce our operating costs by an annual amount of $100 million by 2015. we intend to achieve this by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives, workforce reductions, facility consolidation and other process improvements. however, this is no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings goals. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2017, which provides for a $700,000 committed revolving credit facility. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. we also have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, allows us to issue up to $700,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a further source of working 19 table of contents capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. at december 30, 2012 there was $209,200 outstanding under this program. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 30, 2012, we had $1,384,895 of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the childrens online privacy protection act. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. 20 table of contents as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our balance sheet. however, as of december 30, 2012, we had $416,659 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions have been a component of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. however, we cannot be certain that the products of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. failure to operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products and various other process transactions. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient 21 table of contents operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business and also contains certain customer and consumer data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, our consumers, or ourselves could have a negative effect on our business. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 30, 2012, $474,925, or 11.0%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 46 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 46 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, including with respect to our planned cost savings initiative, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for 10 table of contents scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital products; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. we are focusing our global efforts around our brand architecture, which includes a heightened emphasis and reliance on our franchise and partner brands. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands as we build our business. we are moving away from sku making behaviors, which involve building a large number of products across many brands, towards global brand building with an emphasis on our franchise and partner brands, which we view as having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands, our future success depends to a greater extent on our ability to successfully develop those brands across our brand blue print and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of those brands to global consumers in wide array of markets. in 2013 revenues from our seven franchise brands, littlest pet shop, magic: the gathering, monopoly, nerf, my little pony, play-doh and transformers, totaled 44% of our aggregate net revenues. our key partner brands, such as disney, marvel, lucasfilm, sesame street and rovio, also constitute a significant portion of our overall business. together our franchise and partner brands are critical to our business. if we are unable to successfully execute this strategy and to maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, such that our product offerings based on these brands are not sought after by consumers, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will be harmed. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop and introduce innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual child and family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our child and family entertainment products and properties by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different 11 table of contents tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product and entertainment offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to combine digital and analog play, and capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. the children and family entertainment industry is highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailer private label toy products our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. 12 table of contents an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. united states, global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. challenging market conditions in certain developed economies, such as in the united states, canada, australia and certain western european countries, make it more difficult for us to succeed. our future success in the united states, canada, australia, europe and other developed economies is impacted by market conditions. for example, a european sovereign debt crisis or other significant negative shock to european markets could lead to a recession in europe, which may negatively impact consumers and in turn, sales of our products in the european markets. similar negative events impacting the market in the united states and other developed economies may harm our business. many categories within the toy, game and family entertainment industries in the united states, canada, australia, certain western european countries and other developed economies have not grown, or in some cases have even declined, in recent years. in addition, many current economic predictions suggest developed economies may grow only modestly, if at all, in the next several years. we have substantial business in developed economies, and these markets represent a majority of our current product sales. it is more difficult for us to grow, or even maintain, our business when the overall market in certain of the major countries we serve is not growing or is declining. to succeed in a market that is stable or declining, we must maintain or gain market share from our competitors, which is more difficult than growing in an expanding market. as long as economic conditions in the developed economies remain difficult, this will be an additional challenge for the company. 13 table of contents an increasing portion of our business is expected to come from emerging markets, and growing business in emerging markets presents additional challenges. we expect an increasing portion of our net revenues to come from emerging markets, including eastern europe, latin america and asia. in 2013 revenues in emerging markets constituted approximately 14% of our net revenues, up from only 6% of our net revenues in 2010. over time, we expect our emerging market net revenues to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. operating in an increasing number of markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that we must meet. in addition to the need to successfully anticipate and serve different global consumer preferences and interests, sales and operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to other risks associated with international operations, including: complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact our product offerings and related enforcement; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions which may impact our income tax expense; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our emerging market net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our emerging market business. our business depends in large part on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, owned by disney as well as sesame street and rovio. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel, star wars, sesame street and rovio licenses have been highly significant to our business. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. entertainment is an increasingly important success factor for our brand awareness and brand building. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, digital products, dvd releases and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our owned and partner brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial success. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction 14 table of contents with planned media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television, digital products or other media for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. hub network, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that hub network will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally and backflip studio digital products compete with content from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by hasbro studios and backflip studios, or other content appearing on hub network, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in hub network, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for hub network. during 2013 the company spent $41,325 for programming developed by hasbro studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at comparable levels in 2014 and future years. at december 29, 2013, $321,876, or 7.3%, of our total assets, represented our investment in hub network. if hub network does not achieve success, or if there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. 15 table of contents the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 29, 2013, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 16%, 10% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 39% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 61% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating greater technology and which combine digital and analog play. these products can be more difficult and expensive to design and manufacture, margins on some portion of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have short life spans. as children have grown older younger and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. increasing the marriage between digital and analog gaming and increasing the technology in our gaming products is another key for our future strategy. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. 16 table of contents our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products, or products that combine digital and analog technology, tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of these products can be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. additionally, designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products requires different competencies and follows different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of electronic or digital products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such projects. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 29, 2013, our net revenues from the international segment comprised approximately 46% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located in the far east to produce the substantial majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions which may impact income tax expense; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. 17 table of contents because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded play entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses in foreign markets can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. 18 table of contents we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street or rovio related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 29, 2013, we had $294,991 of prepaid royalties, $152,459 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $142,532 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 29, 2013, we may be required to pay additional future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $332,000. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the substantial majority of our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. although, should changes be necessary, our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that the majority of our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our 19 table of contents business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors, and natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china. also, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. if we are unable to successfully adapt to the evolution of gaming, our revenues and profitability may decline. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. the objective of this plan was to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow in 2013 and beyond. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. our strategy also involves making changes in how we design and develop our gaming products. we recognize the need to provide immersive game play that is easy for consumers to learn and play in shorter periods of time, as well as offer innovative face to face, off the board and digital gaming opportunities. people are gaming in greater numbers than ever before, but the nature of gaming has and continues to evolve quickly. to be successful our gaming offerings must evolve to anticipate and meet these changes in consumer gaming. our failure to successfully implement our strategy and to keep up with the evolution of gaming could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our branded play efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. additionally, we have experienced significant changes in our workforce from our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required from our changing global business. we have added hundreds of employees in our global markets while reducing our overall workforce over the last several years. these changes in employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, has required 20 table of contents changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. to improve our profitability and competitiveness, in the fourth quarter of 2012 we implemented a global cost savings initiative. the objective of this initiative is to reduce our operating costs by an annual gross amount of $100 million by the end of 2015. we intend to achieve this by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives, workforce reductions, facility consolidation and other process improvements. however, these actions are no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings goal and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from this initiative. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $700,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we also have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2017, which provides for a $700,000 committed revolving credit facility and a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. this facility also supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. 21 table of contents as of december 29, 2013, we had $1,384,895 of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding, including our 6.125% notes which are due in may of 2014, which include principal amounts of $425,000. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the children online privacy protection act. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. our business is dependent on intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. in addition, we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. our intellectual property, including our license agreements and other agreements that establish our ownership rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of great value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. our failure to protect our intellectual property rights could harm our business and competitive position. much of our 22 table of contents intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. however, as of december 29, 2013, we had $375,999 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions or investments, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or offerings and/or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. additionally, through our acquisition of a 70% interest in backflip studios, we looked to strengthen our mobile gaming expertise. however, we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. failure to operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products and various other process transactions. we are dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business and also contains certain customer and consumer data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the 23 table of contents protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, our consumers, or ourselves, failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of this data could disrupt our operations, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations and subject us to additional costs and liabilities that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 29, 2013, $594,321, or 13.5%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, including with respect to our planned cost savings initiative, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital products; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in thousands of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. we are focusing our global efforts around our brand architecture, which includes a heightened emphasis and reliance on our franchise and key partner brands. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands as we build our business. we are moving away from sku making behaviors, which involve building a large number of products across many brands, towards global brand building with an emphasis on our franchise and partner brands, which we view as 11 table of contents having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands, our future success depends to a greater extent on our ability to successfully develop those brands across our brand blueprint and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of those brands to global consumers in a wide array of markets. in 2014 revenues from our seven franchise brands, littlest pet shop, magic: the gathering, monopoly, nerf, my little pony, play-doh and transformers, totaled 55% of our aggregate net revenues. our key partner brands, such as disney, marvel, lucasfilm, sesame street and rovio, also constitute a significant portion of our overall business. together our franchise and partner brands are critical to our business. if we are unable to successfully execute this strategy and to maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, such that our product offerings based on these brands are not sought after by consumers to the extent required to maintain and grow those brands, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will be harmed. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop and introduce innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual child and family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. similarly, if our product offerings and entertainment fail to correctly anticipate consumer interests our revenues and earnings will be reduced. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our child and family entertainment products and properties by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product and entertainment offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to combine digital and analog play, and capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or 12 table of contents any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. entertainment is an increasingly important success factor for our brand awareness, storytelling and brand building. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, digital products, digital shorts, dvd releases and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our brands and our partners brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial success. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases, both by our partners and our own media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. for 2015 we are developing and marketing significant product lines tied to the scheduled motion picture releases by key partners of avengers : age of ultron , jurassic world and star wars: the force awakens . those motion pictures are all being developed and released by our partners and our partners control the content and schedule for such motion pictures. similarly, we are developing and marketing products for entertainment we play a more active role in developing or develop ourselves. if those motion pictures, or any other key entertainment content for which we develop and market products are not as successful as we and our partners anticipate, our revenues and earnings will be reduced. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television, digital products or other media for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that discovery family channel will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally and backflip studio digital products compete with content from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by hasbro studios and backflip studios, or other content appearing on discovery family channel, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in discovery family channel, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for discovery family channel. during 2014 the company spent $31,424 for programming developed by hasbro studios and anticipates that it will continue spending at comparable levels in 2015 and future years. 13 table of contents at december 28, 2014, $244,587, or 5.4%, of our total assets, represented our investment in discovery family channel. if discovery family channel does not achieve success, or if there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. the children and family entertainment industry is highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailer private label toy products our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry is, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not 14 table of contents significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. late in 2014 certain key currencies, such as the euro, russian ruble, and brazilian real depreciated significantly compared to the u.s. dollar. this depreciation had a significant negative impact on our 2014 revenues and earnings. similar depreciation in key currencies during 2015 may have a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings as they are reported in u.s. dollars. united states, global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. challenging market conditions in certain developed economies, such as in the united states, canada, australia and certain western european countries, make it more difficult for us to succeed. our future success in the united states, canada, australia, europe and other developed economies is impacted by market conditions. for example, a european sovereign debt crisis or other significant negative shock to european markets could lead to a recession in europe, which may negatively impact consumers and in turn, sales of our products in the european markets. similar negative events impacting the market in the united states and other developed economies may harm our business. many categories within the toy, game and family entertainment industries in the united states, canada, australia, certain western european countries and other developed economies have not grown, or in some cases have even declined, in recent years. in addition, many current economic predictions suggest developed economies may grow only modestly, if at all, in the next several years. we have substantial business in developed economies, and these markets represent a majority of our current product sales. it is more difficult for us to grow, or even maintain, our business when the overall market in certain of the major countries we serve is not growing or is declining. to succeed in a market that is stable or declining, we must maintain or gain market share from our competitors, which is more difficult than growing in an expanding market. as long as economic conditions in the developed economies remain difficult, this will be an additional challenge for the company. an increasing portion of our business is expected to come from emerging markets, and growing business in emerging markets presents additional challenges. we expect an increasing portion of our net revenues to come from emerging markets, including eastern europe, latin america and asia. in 2014 revenues in emerging markets constituted approximately 16% of our net 15 table of contents revenues, up from only 6% of our net revenues in 2010. over time, we expect our emerging market net revenues to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. operating in an increasing number of markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that we must meet. in addition to the need to successfully anticipate and serve different global consumer preferences and interests, sales and operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to other risks associated with international operations, including: complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact our product offerings and related enforcement; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our emerging market net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our emerging market business. our business depends in large part on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, owned by disney, as well as sesame street and rovio. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel, star wars, sesame street and rovio licenses have been highly significant to our business. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. in 2015 we anticipate offering products based on the disney descendants brand as well and beginning in 2016, we anticipate offering products based on the disney princess and frozen brands. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season, including christmas. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by 16 table of contents consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 28, 2014, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 16%, 9% and 8%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 59% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating greater technology and which combine digital and analog play. these products can be more difficult and expensive to design and manufacture, margins on some portion of these products are lower than more traditional toys and games and such products may have short life spans. as children have grown older younger and have otherwise become interested in more and more sophisticated and adult products, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at 17 table of contents younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. one initiative we have pursued to capture the interest of children is to offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. increasing the marriage between digital and analog gaming and increasing the technology in our gaming products is another key for our future strategy. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. our costs for designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products, or products that combine digital and analog technology, tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to recoup these higher costs through sufficient sales quantities and to reflect higher costs in higher prices is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a consequence, our margins on the sales of these products can be lower than for more traditional products and we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. additionally, designing, developing and producing electronic and digital products requires different competencies and follows different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of electronic or digital products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such projects. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 28, 2014, our net revenues from the international segment comprised approximately 47% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect our sales to international customers to continue to account for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located in the far east to produce the substantial majority of our products, and we have a manufacturing facility in ireland. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions, which can materially increase our taxes and other costs of doing business; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; 18 table of contents difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our international sales and international sourcing of manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded play entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street or rovio related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, 19 table of contents maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 28, 2014, we had $230,840 of prepaid royalties, $132,146 of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $98,694 of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 28, 2014, we may be required to pay additional future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $506,000. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce the substantial majority of our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. we own and operate two manufacturing facilities, one in east longmeadow, massachusetts and the other in waterford, ireland. however, most of our products are manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. although, should changes be necessary, our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that the majority of our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, slow-downs, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. during the period leading up to the 2014 holiday season labor disputes had a negative impact on the transportation of many goods coming from the far east to the united states through the port the company utilizes in california. to manage the impact of that situation we opted to transport products through a port on the east coast. however, prolonged disputes or slowdowns at the west coast port can negatively impact both the time and cost of transporting goods into the united states. natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china can also have a significant negative impact on our business. further, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, could significantly increase our 20 table of contents cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured by or for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. if we are unable to successfully adapt to the evolution of gaming, our revenues and profitability may decline. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. the objective of this plan was to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow over the long-term. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. our strategy also involves making changes in how we design and develop our gaming products. we recognize the need to provide immersive game play that is easy for consumers to learn and play in shorter periods of time, as well as offer innovative face to face, off the board and digital gaming opportunities. people are gaming in greater numbers than ever before, but the nature of gaming has and continues to evolve quickly. to be successful our gaming offerings must evolve to anticipate and meet these changes in consumer gaming. our failure to successfully implement our strategy and to keep up with the evolution of gaming could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees around the world. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. additionally, we have experienced significant changes in our workforce from our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required from our changing global business. we have added hundreds of employees in our global markets while reducing our overall workforce over the last several years. these changes in employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, has required changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve 21 table of contents our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. to improve our profitability and competitiveness, in the fourth quarter of 2012 we implemented a global cost savings initiative. the objective of this initiative is to reduce our underlying operating costs by an annual gross amount of $100 million by the end of 2015. we intend to achieve this by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives, workforce reductions, facility consolidation and other process improvements. however, these actions are no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings goal and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from this initiative. our business is critically dependent on our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. our intellectual property, including our trademarks and tradenames, copyrights, patents, and rights under our license agreements and other agreements that establish our intellectual property rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of critical value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. similarly, third parties may claim ownership over certain aspects of our products or other intellectual property. our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business and competitive position. we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. however, as of december 28, 2014, we had $324,528 of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $700,000 in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we also have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2017, which provides for a $700,000 committed revolving credit facility and a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. this facility also supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. 22 table of contents not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 28, 2014, we had $1,559,895 of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the children online privacy protection act and other privacy laws around the world. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. 23 table of contents we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in making acquisitions or investments, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or offerings and/or the ability for us to leverage our entertainment offerings. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. additionally, through our acquisition of a 70% interest in backflip studios, we looked to strengthen our mobile gaming expertise. however, we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. there is no guarantee that any acquisition or investment we may make will be successful or beneficial, and acquisitions can consume significant amounts of management attention and other resources, which may negatively impact other aspects of our business. failure to operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including product development, management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, financial reporting and various other process transactions. we are critically dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and entertainment under development, and also contains certain customer, consumer, supplier, partner and employee data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, consumers, suppliers, partners, employees or ourselves, or failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of or damage to this data through 24 table of contents breach of our information technology systems or other means could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our customers, consumers and other business partners, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations and subject us to additional costs and liabilities and loss of business that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as is the case with many large multinational corporations, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us as well as claims by third parties that our products infringe upon or misuse such third parties property or rights. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 28, 2014, $593,438, or 13.1%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53risk factors 10 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, including with respect to our planned cost savings initiative, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital products; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and 10 table of contents similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in millions of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. we are focusing our global efforts around our brand architecture, which includes a heightened emphasis and reliance on our franchise and key partner brands, and development of those brands across the brand blueprint. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands as we build our business. we are moving away from sku making behaviors, which involve building a large number of products across many brands, towards global brand building with an emphasis on developing our franchise and key partner brands, which we view as having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands, our future success depends to a greater extent on our ability to successfully develop those brands across our brand blueprint and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of those brands to global consumers in a wide array of markets. this strategy has required us to build and develop competencies in new areas, including storytelling, digital content and consumer products. developing and growing these competencies has required significant effort, time and money. our future success is dependent on our ability to continue building our brands across the blueprint. in 2015 revenues from our seven franchise brands, littlest pet shop, magic: the gathering, monopoly, nerf, my little pony, play-doh and transformers, totaled 52% of our aggregate net revenues. our key partner brands, including disney, marvel and lucasfilm, also constitute a significant portion of our overall business. in 2015, net revenues from our partner brands constituted 28% of our aggregate net revenues. together our franchise and partner brands are critical to our business. if we are unable to successfully execute this strategy and to maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, such that our product offerings based on these brands are not sought after by consumers to the extent required to maintain and grow those brands, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will be harmed. in addition to continuing to grow and develop our existing franchise brands, successfully executing our brand strategy may also require us to be able to successfully develop other brands, such as current challenger brands, to franchise brand status. there is no guarantee that we will be able to do this. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop and introduce innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular 11 table of contents during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual children and family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in significant quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. similarly, if our product offerings and entertainment fail to correctly anticipate consumer interests our revenues and earnings will be reduced. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our children and family entertainment products and properties by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product and entertainment offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to integrate digital and analog play, and aim to capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. entertainment is an increasingly important success factor for our brand awareness, storytelling and brand building. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, digital products, digital shorts, dvd releases and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our brands and our partners brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial success. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases, both by our partners and our own media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. for 2016 we are developing and marketing significant product lines tied to the scheduled motion picture releases by key partners of captain america: civil war, moana, rogue one: a star wars story and trolls . those motion pictures are all being developed and released by our partners and our partners control the content and schedule for such motion pictures. other key partner product lines we are offering, such as yokai-watch, depend on television support by our partners for their successes. similarly, we are developing and marketing products for entertainment we play a more active role in developing or develop ourselves. if those motion pictures, television shows, or any other key entertainment content for which we develop and market products are not as successful as we and our partners anticipate, our revenues and earnings will be reduced. 12 table of contents the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television, digital products or other media for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that discovery family channel will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally and backflip studios digital products compete with content from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by hasbro studios and backflip studios, or other content appearing on discovery family channel, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in discovery family channel, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for discovery family channel. during 2015 we spent $42.5 million for television programming and film projects being developed by hasbro studios and we anticipate that we will continue spending at comparable levels in 2016 and future years. at december 27, 2015, $242.9 million, or 5.1%, of our total assets, represented our investment in discovery family channel. if discovery family channel does not achieve success, or if there are subsequent declines in the success or profitability of the channel, then our investment may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. the children and family entertainment industry and consumer products industry are highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailers private label toy products our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry and the consumer products industry are, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. in addition, we compete with other companies who are focused on building their brands across multiple product and consumer categories. across our business, we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry and in the consumer products industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital 13 table of contents media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers and brand owners. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. late in 2014 and throughout 2015, certain key currencies, such as the euro, russian ruble, and brazilian real depreciated significantly compared to the u.s. dollar. this depreciation had a significant negative impact on our 2014 and 2015 revenues and earnings. similar depreciation in key currencies during 2016 may have a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings as they are reported in u.s. dollars. global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the 14 table of contents level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. challenging market conditions in certain developed economies, such as in australia and certain western european countries, make it more difficult for us to succeed. our future success in developed economies is impacted by market conditions. for example, a european sovereign debt crisis or other significant negative shock to european markets could lead to a recession in europe, which may negatively impact consumers and in turn, sales of our products in the european markets. similar negative events impacting the market in the united states and other developed economies may harm our business. many categories within the toy, game and family entertainment industries in certain developed economies, such as australia and certain western european countries, have not grown, or in some cases have even declined, in certain recent years. in addition, many current economic predictions suggest developed economies may grow only modestly, if at all, in the next several years. we have substantial business in developed economies, and these markets represent a majority of our current product sales. it is more difficult for us to grow, or even maintain, our business when the overall market in certain of the major countries we serve is not growing or is declining. to succeed in a market that is stable or declining, we must maintain or gain market share from our competitors, which is more difficult than growing in an expanding market. as long as economic conditions in the developed economies remain difficult, this will be an additional challenge for the company. an increasing portion of our business is expected to come from emerging markets, and growing business in emerging markets presents additional challenges. we expect an increasing portion of our net revenues to come from emerging markets in the future, including eastern europe, latin america and asia. in 2015 revenues in emerging markets constituted approximately 14% of our net revenues, up from only 6% of our net revenues in 2010. over time, we expect our emerging market net revenues to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. operating in an increasing number of markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that we must meet. in addition to the need to successfully anticipate and serve different global consumer preferences and interests, sales and operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to other risks associated with international operations, including: complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact our product offerings and related enforcement; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; 15 table of contents difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our emerging market net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our emerging market business. our business depends in large part on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, each owned by disney. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel and star wars licenses have been highly significant to our business. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. beginning in 2016, our product offerings under licenses with disney will expand to include product offerings based on the disney princess and frozen brands. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our 16 table of contents failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 27, 2015, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 16%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 39% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 59% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating progressive technology, integrating digital and analog play. these products can be more difficult and expensive to design and manufacture which may reduce margins on some or a portion of these products compared to more traditional toys and games and such products may have short life spans. as childhood evolves and children become more interested in sophisticated product offerings, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. to continue capturing the interest of sophisticated youth, we must offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. this is another key to our strategy; complementing analog play with digital integration and investing in technology development. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. costs associated with designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. in order to recoup these higher costs, sufficient sales quantities at sufficient prices which reflect those higher costs are necessary but may be constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions meaning we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs. additionally, designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products requires different competencies and follows 17 table of contents different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of these products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such products. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 27, 2015, our net revenues from the international segment comprised approximately 44% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect net revenues from our international segment to continue accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in dollars and as a percentage of our overall business as a result of a key business strategy to expand our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located in the far east to produce our products. these sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to the risks associated with international operations, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions, which can materially increase our taxes and other costs of doing business; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our international sales, sourcing and manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. 18 table of contents other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded-play entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street, disney princess, frozen , trolls or yokai-watch related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 27, 2015, we had $124.4 million of prepaid royalties, $47.5 million of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $76.8 million of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 27, 2015, we may be required to pay additional future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $426.4 million. acquiring or renewing 19 table of contents licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. with the sale of our remaining manufacturing facilities in 2015, all of our products are now manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. should changes be necessary, our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, slow downs, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. prolonged disputes or slowdowns at the west coast port can negatively impact both the time and cost of transporting goods into the united states. natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china can also have a significant negative impact on our business. further, the imposition of trade sanctions or other regulations by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from, or the loss of normal trade relations status with, china, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these 20 table of contents requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. if we are unable to successfully adapt to the evolution of gaming, our revenues and profitability may decline. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. the objective of this plan was to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow over the long-term. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on understanding consumer insights and in delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. our strategy also involves making changes in how we design and develop our gaming products. we recognize the need to provide immersive game play that is easy for consumers to learn and play in shorter periods of time, as well as offer innovative face to face, off the board and digital gaming opportunities. people are gaming in greater numbers than ever before, but the nature of gaming has and continues to evolve quickly. to be successful our gaming offerings must evolve to anticipate and meet these changes in consumer gaming. our failure to successfully implement our strategy and to keep up with the evolution of gaming could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees around the world. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. additionally, we have experienced significant changes in our workforce from our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required for our changing global business. we have added hundreds of employees in our global markets, in licensing and in entertainment and storytelling capabilities, while reducing our overall workforce over the last several years. these changes in employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, has required changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. we intend to achieve this partly by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives and through process improvements, including in global product development. however, these actions are no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings goal and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from this initiative. our business is critically dependent on our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. our intellectual property, including our trademarks and tradenames, copyrights, patents, and rights under our license agreements and other agreements that establish our intellectual property rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of critical value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, 21 table of contents copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. similarly, third parties may claim ownership over certain aspects of our products or other intellectual property. our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business and competitive position. we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. however, as of december 27, 2015, we had $280.8 million of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheets. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $700.0 million in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we also have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2020, which provides for a $700.0 million committed revolving credit facility and a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. this facility also supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and 22 table of contents prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 27, 2015, we had $1,559.9 million of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the children online privacy protection act and other privacy laws around the world. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our historical growth and have enabled us to further broaden and diversify our product offerings. in reviewing potential acquisitions or investments, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or offerings, the ability for us to leverage our family entertainment offerings, and opportunities to drive our strategic brand blueprint or other synergies. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown 23 table of contents the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. additionally, through our acquisition of a 70% interest in backflip studios, we looked to strengthen our mobile gaming expertise. however, we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products or to grow our business. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products or services in the future. there is no guarantee that any acquisition or investment we may make will be successful or beneficial, and acquisitions can consume significant amounts of management attention and other resources, which may negatively impact other aspects of our business. failure to successfully operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including product development, management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, financial reporting and various other processes and transactions. we are critically dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and entertainment under development, and also contains certain customer, consumer, supplier, partner and employee data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, consumers, suppliers, partners, employees or ourselves, or failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of or damage to this data through breach of our information technology systems or other means could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our customers, consumers and other business partners, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations and subject us to additional costs and liabilities and loss of business that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as a large multinational corporation, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by 24 table of contents the users of products that have been or may be developed by us as well as claims by third parties that our products infringe upon or misuse such third parties property or rights. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in a significant number of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or differing interpretations of, income tax laws and rules, and changes in our geographic operating results, may impact our effective tax rate. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in various international tax jurisdictions. we also conduct business activities between our operating units in various jurisdictions and we are subject to transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate. there is some degree of uncertainty and subjectivity in complying with transfer pricing rules. our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in, or the interpretation of, tax laws or by changes in the amount of revenue and earnings we derive, or are determined to derive by tax authorities, from jurisdictions with differing tax rates. unanticipated changes in our tax rate could impact our results of operations. in addition, we may be subject to tax examinations by federal, state, and international jurisdictions, and these examinations can result in significant tax findings if the tax authorities interpret the application of laws and rules differently than we do or disagree with the intercompany rates we are applying. we assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from tax uncertainties. at december 27, 2015 we have a liability for uncertain tax benefits of $68.3 million. while we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax benefits, or results of possible current or future tax examinations, may differ from our estimates and may have a significant adverse impact on our business and operating results. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 27, 2015, $592.7 million, or 12.5%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. included in goodwill is $119.1 million related to backflip. should backflip not achieve its profitability and growth targets, including anticipated game releases in 2016, the carrying value may become impaired. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 54risk factors 9 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, including with respect to our planned cost savings initiatives, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital content; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, 9 table of contents looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in millions of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. our strategy involves focusing on franchise and key partner brands, and successfully developing those brands across the brand blueprint in a wide array of innovative toys and games, consumer products, storytelling and digital experiences. if we are not successful in developing and expanding these critical brands our business will suffer. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands as we build our business. we are moving away from sku making behaviors, which involve building a large number of products across many brands, towards global brand building with an emphasis on developing our franchise and key partner brands, which we view as having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands we can gain additional leverage and enhance the consumer experience. but this focus also means that our future success depends disproportionately on our ability to successfully develop this select group of brands across our brand blueprint and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of these brands to global consumers in a wide array of markets. this strategy has required us to build and develop competencies in new areas, including storytelling, digital content and consumer products. developing and growing these competencies has required significant effort, time and money. in 2016 revenues from our seven franchise brands, littlest pet shop, magic: the gathering, monopoly, nerf, my little pony, play-doh and transformers, totaled 46% of our aggregate net revenues. revenues from our key partner brands, including disney princess and disney frozen, marvel, star wars, dreamworks trolls and yo-kai watch, constituted 28% of our aggregate net revenues in 2016. together our franchise and partner brands account for the substantial majority of our revenues. if we are unable to successfully maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, and grow sales of products based on those brands, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will suffer. in addition to continuing to grow and develop our existing franchise brands, successfully executing our brand strategy requires us to successfully develop other brands, such as current emerging brands, and elevate them to franchise brand status over time. there is no guarantee that we will be able to do this. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families, or to maintain the popularity of successful products. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop and introduce innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual children and family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing and marketing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in sufficient quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. similarly, if our product offerings and entertainment fail to correctly anticipate consumer interests our revenues and earnings will be reduced. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our children and family entertainment products and properties by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product and entertainment offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop and market products with global appeal. 10 table of contents the challenge of continuously developing and offering products that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to integrate digital and analog play, and aim to capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. storytelling across media is an increasingly important factor for driving brand awareness and successfully building brands. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, digital content and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our brands and our partners brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial performance. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases, both by our partners and our own media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, such as motion picture studios with whom we work, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. for 2017 we are developing and marketing product lines tied to the scheduled motion picture releases by our key partners of disney beauty and the beast, marvel guardians of the galaxy vol. 2, spiderman: homecoming , thor:ragnorok and star wars: the last jedi . those motion pictures are all being developed and released by our partners and our partners control the content and schedule for such motion pictures. other key partner product lines we are offering, such as yo-kai watch, depend on television support by our partners for their successes. similarly, we are developing and marketing products for entertainment we play a more active role in developing or develop ourselves, such as transformers and my little pony. if those motion pictures, television shows, or any other key entertainment content for which we develop and market products are not as successful as we and our partners anticipate, the number of products we sell may decrease and harm our business. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts, and the fact that our third party partners may decide not to develop such entertainment. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television, digital content or other media for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by 11 table of contents consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our and our partners media efforts fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that discovery family channel will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed internationally and backflip studio digital products compete with content from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by hasbro studios and backflip studios, or other content appearing on discovery family channel, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in discovery family channel, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for discovery family channel. during 2016 we spent $48.7 million for television programming and film projects being developed by hasbro studios and we anticipate that we will continue spending at comparable levels in 2017 and future years. at december 25, 2016, $242.4 million, or 4.8%, of our total assets, represented our investment in the discovery family channel. if the discovery family channel is not successful our investments may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. the children and family entertainment industry and consumer products industry are highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailers private label toy products our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry and the consumer products industry are, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. in addition, we compete with other companies who are focused on building their brands across multiple product and consumer categories. across our business, we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry and in the consumer products industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers and brand owners. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands, we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future, those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are 12 table of contents developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated, may reduce or eliminate the profitability of such products or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different markets with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the united states dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. late in 2014 and throughout 2015, certain key currencies, such as the euro, british pound sterling, russian ruble, and brazilian real depreciated significantly compared to the u.s. dollar. also in 2016, certain of these key currencies depreciated against the u.s. dollar. this depreciation had a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings. depreciation in key currencies during 2017 and beyond may have a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings as they are reported in u.s. dollars. global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. an increasing portion of our business is expected to come from emerging markets, and growing business in emerging markets presents additional challenges. we expect an increasing portion of our net revenues to come from emerging markets in the future, including eastern europe, latin america and asia. in 2016 revenues in emerging markets constituted approximately 14% of our net revenues, up from only 6% of our net revenues in 2010. over time, we expect our emerging market net revenues to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. operating in an increasing number of markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that we must meet. in addition to the need to successfully anticipate and serve different global consumer preferences and interests, sales and operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to other risks associated with international operations, including: complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact our product offerings and related enforcement; 13 table of contents potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; and the imposition of tariffs, border adjustment taxes, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our emerging market net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our emerging market business. our business depends in large part on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, as well as disney princess and disney frozen. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel and star wars licenses have been highly significant to our business. in 2016 we began sales of products based on disney princess and disney frozen, which contributed significantly to our performance. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in our under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature 14 table of contents of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 25, 2016, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 18%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 41% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 62% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating progressive technology, integrating digital and analog play. these products can be more difficult and expensive to design and manufacture which may reduce margins on some or a portion of these products compared to more traditional toys and games and such products may have short life spans. as childhood evolves and children become more interested in sophisticated product offerings, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. to continue capturing the interest of sophisticated youth, we must offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. this is another key to our strategy; complementing analog play with digital integration and investing in technology development. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. costs associated with designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to sell enough of these advanced products, at prices high enough to recoup our costs and make a profit, is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a result, we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs and we may lose money on the development and sale of these products. additionally, designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products requires different competencies and follows different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of these products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such products. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 25, 2016, our net revenues from the international segment comprised approximately 44% of our total 15 table of contents consolidated net revenues. we expect net revenues from our international segment to continue accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in dollars and as a percentage of our overall business as a result of a key business strategy to expand our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers located in the far east to produce most of our products. these international sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets, are subject to risks that may significantly harm our sales, increase our costs or otherwise damage our business, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; limitations on the repatriation of earnings; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions, which can materially increase our taxes and other costs of doing business; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, border adjustment taxes (such as is currently being discussed in the united states) or other protectionist measures by any major country or market in which we operate, which could make it significantly more expensive and difficult to import products into that country or market, raise the cost of such products, decrease our sales of such products and/or decrease our profitability. on june 23 rd 2016, the united kingdom ( uk ) voted in a referendum to leave the european union ( eu ), commonly referred to as brexit. the uk government has stated it will begin the formal two-year period to negotiate the terms of the uk exit and future relationship with the eu by april 2017. the terms of this future relationship are uncertain but the uk government has confirmed its intention to remove the uk from the eu single market and implement additional controls on the movement of people from within the eu. the brexit vote resulted in a weakening of the british pound sterling against the us dollar and increased volatility in the foreign currency markets, notably the euro. these fluctuations have adversely affected our final results for 2016, although the impact has been partially mitigated by our hedging strategy. our revenues in europe are predominately denominated in local currency. hasbro will continue to closely monitor the brexit negotiations and the foreign currency markets, but changes in foreign exchange rates and other potential regulations and increased costs associated with brexit may harm our sales and the profitability of our business in the uk and the eu. because of the importance of international sales, sourcing and manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. 16 table of contents significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded-play entertainment products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street, disney princess, disney frozen, dreamworks trolls, yo-kai watch or beyblade related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 25, 2016, we had $102.8 million of prepaid royalties, $34.1 million of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $68.7 million of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 25, 2016, we may be required to pay additional future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $355.7 million. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. 17 table of contents our use of third-party manufacturers to produce our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. with the sale of our remaining manufacturing facilities in 2015, all of our products are now manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. should changes be necessary, our external sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, slow-downs, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. prolonged disputes or slowdowns at the west coast port can negatively impact both the time and cost of transporting goods into the united states. natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china can also have a significant negative impact on our business. further, the imposition of tariffs, quotas, border adjustment taxes (such as is currently being discussed in the united states), trade sanctions or other protectionist regulations or economic penalties by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from china or other foreign countries, or the loss of normal trade relations status with china or other foreign countries in which we operate, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe, decrease our sales of such products, and/or decrease our profitability, and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china or another market in which we source products could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. if we are unable to successfully adapt to the evolution of gaming, our revenues and profitability may decline. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. the objective of this plan was to stabilize our gaming business in 2012, and to position it to grow over the long-term. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involves substantial changes in how we market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, a focus on understanding consumer insights and in delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. our strategy also involves making changes in how we design and develop our gaming products. we recognize the need to provide immersive game play that is easy for consumers to learn and play in shorter periods of time, as well as offer innovative face to face, off the board and digital gaming 18 table of contents opportunities. people are gaming in greater numbers than ever before, but the nature of gaming has and continues to evolve quickly. to be successful our gaming offerings must evolve to anticipate and meet these changes in consumer gaming. our failure to successfully implement our strategy and to keep up with the evolution of gaming could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees around the world. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. additionally, we have experienced significant changes in our workforce from our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required for our changing global business. we have added hundreds of employees in our global markets, in licensing and in entertainment and storytelling capabilities, while reducing our workforce in other areas over the last several years. these changes in employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, have required changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. we intend to achieve this partly by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives and through process improvements, including in global product development. however, these actions are no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings goal and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from this initiative. our business is critically dependent on our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. our intellectual property, including our trademarks and tradenames, copyrights, patents, and rights under our license agreements and other agreements that establish our intellectual property rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of critical value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. similarly, third parties may claim ownership over certain aspects of our products or other intellectual property. our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business and competitive position. we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. however, as of december 25, 2016, we had $245.9 million of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, 19 table of contents and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $700.0 million in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we also have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2020, which provides for a $700.0 million committed revolving credit facility and a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. this facility also supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 25, 2016, we had $1,559.9 million of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding, including the current portion. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the children online privacy protection act and other privacy laws around the world. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. 20 table of contents complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our growth and the development of our business, and that is likely to continue in the future. acquisitions can broaden and diversify our brand holdings and product offerings, and allow us to build additional capabilities and competencies around our brand blueprint including in storytelling and digital media. in reviewing potential acquisitions or investments, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or offerings, the ability for us to leverage our family play and entertainment offerings, opportunities to drive our strategic brand blueprint and associated competencies, or other synergies. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. additionally, through our acquisition of backflip studios, we looked to strengthen our mobile gaming expertise. however, we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products, develop our competencies or to grow our business. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products, entertainment or services in the future. there is no guarantee that any acquisition or investment we may make will be successful or beneficial, and acquisitions can consume significant amounts of management attention and other resources, which may negatively impact other aspects of our business. failure to successfully operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including product development, management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, financial reporting and various other processes and transactions. we are critically dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and entertainment under development, and also contains certain customer, consumer, supplier, partner and employee data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion or 21 table of contents tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, consumers, suppliers, partners, employees or ourselves, or failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of or damage to this data through breach of our information technology systems or other means could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our customers, consumers and other business partners, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations and subject us to additional costs and liabilities and loss of business that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as a large multinational corporation, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us as well as claims by third parties that our products infringe upon or misuse such third parties property or rights. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in significant numbers of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or differing interpretations of, income tax laws and rules, and changes in our geographic operating results, may impact our effective tax rate. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in various international tax jurisdictions. we also conduct business activities between our operating units in various jurisdictions and we are subject to transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate. there is some degree of uncertainty and subjectivity in complying with transfer pricing rules. our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in, or the interpretation of, tax laws or by changes in the amount of revenue and earnings we derive, or are determined to derive by tax authorities, from jurisdictions with differing tax rates. unanticipated changes in our tax rate could impact our results of operations. in addition, we may be subject to tax examinations by federal, state, and international jurisdictions, and these examinations can result in significant tax findings if the tax authorities interpret the application of laws and rules differently than we do or disagree with the intercompany rates we are applying. we assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from tax uncertainties. at december 25, 2016 we have a liability for uncertain tax benefits of $84.4 million. while we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax benefits, or results of possible current or future tax examinations, may differ from our estimates and may have a significant adverse impact on our business and operating results. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be periodically evaluated for impairment. at december 25, 2016, $570.6 million, or 11.2%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. during the fourth quarter of 2016, in conjunction with the company annual review for impairment, the company recognized an impairment charge of $32.9, million or $0.12 per diluted share, related to our backflip reporting unit, reducing goodwill to $86.3 million. in the future, should backflip not achieve its profitability and growth targets, including anticipated game releases in 2017 and beyond, the carrying value may become further impaired, resulting in additional impairment charges. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this annual report on form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we make forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to such matters as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, the expected content of and timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital content; and marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, liquidity, and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this annual report on form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. unless otherwise specifically indicated, all dollar or share amounts herein are expressed in millions of dollars or shares, except for per share amounts. our strategy involves focusing on franchise and key partner brands, and successfully developing those brands across the brand blueprint in a wide array of innovative toys and games, consumer products, storytelling and digital experiences. if we are not successful in developing and expanding these critical brands our business will suffer. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands as we build our business. we are moving away from sku making behaviors, which involve building a large number of products across many brands, towards global brand building with an emphasis on developing our franchise and key partner brands, which we view as having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands we can gain additional leverage and enhance the consumer experience. but this focus also means that our future success 11 table of contents depends disproportionately on our ability to successfully develop this select group of brands across our brand blueprint and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of these brands to global consumers in a wide array of markets. this strategy has required us to build and develop competencies in new areas, including storytelling, digital content and consumer products. developing and growing these competencies has required significant effort, time and money. in 2017 revenues from our seven franchise brands, littlest pet shop, magic: the gathering, monopoly, nerf, my little pony, play-doh and transformers, totaled 49% of our aggregate net revenues. revenues from our key partner brands, including disney princess and disney frozen, marvel, star wars, dreamworks trolls, beyblade and yo-kai watch, constituted 24% of our aggregate net revenues in 2017. together our franchise and partner brands account for the substantial majority of our revenues. if we are unable to successfully maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, continue to drive their relevance to consumers and grow sales of products and storytelling experiences based on those brands, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will suffer. in addition to continuing to grow and develop our existing franchise brands, successfully executing our brand strategy requires us to successfully develop other brands, such as current emerging brands, and elevate them to franchise brand status over time. there is no guarantee that we will be able to do this successfully. as an example of this process, in february 2018 we elevated baby alive to franchise brand status and moved littlest pet shop, which we are in the process of reinventing and which requires a different developmental approach at this point, out of franchise brands and into emerging brands. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to create storytelling experiences and to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families, or to maintain the popularity of successful products and brands. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop and introduce innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual children and family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing and marketing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in sufficient quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. similarly, if our product offerings and entertainment fail to correctly anticipate consumer interests our revenues and earnings will be reduced. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our children and family entertainment products and properties by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product and entertainment offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop and market products with global appeal. the challenge of continuously developing and offering products and storytelling experiences that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to integrate digital and analog play, and aim to capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; 12 table of contents any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. storytelling across media is an increasingly important factor for driving brand awareness and successfully building brands. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, digital content and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our brands and our partners brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial performance. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases, both by our partners and our own media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, such as motion picture studios with whom we work, heavily impact the timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. in 2017, we developed and marketed significant product lines tied to the scheduled motion picture releases by key partners of disney beauty and the beast, marvel guardians of the galaxy vol. 2, spiderman: homecoming, thor:ragnorok and star wars: the last jedi. for 2018, we are developing and marketing significant product lines tied to the scheduled motion picture releases by key partners of a number of properties, including black panther, avengers: infinity wars, solo: a star wars story and ant-man and the wasp. those motion pictures are all being developed and released by our partners and our partners control the content and schedule for such motion pictures. other key partner product lines we are offering, such as beyblade and yokai-watch, depend on television support by our partners for their successes. similarly, we are developing and marketing products for entertainment we play a more active role in developing or develop ourselves, such as transformers, my little pony and bumblebee. if those motion pictures, television shows, or any other key entertainment content for which we develop and market products are not as successful as we and our partners anticipate, our revenues and earnings will fall. as an example, in the fourth quarter of 2017 our sales of products related to star wars: the last jedi were significantly below our expectations and that was a factor that caused us to miss our revenue expectations for that quarter. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts, and the fact that third party partners of ours may decide not to develop such entertainment. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media we produce or for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television, digital content or other media we produce or for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our or our partners media efforts, and related product offerings, fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. under the relationship we entered with paramount in october 2017 we plan to play a bigger role in the production and financing of motion pictures based on our properties. that has the advantage of giving us more input to what properties are developed into motion pictures and when, and can allow us to earn a greater return from successful films, but it also increases the money we will directly spend on film production and puts that 13 table of contents investment at risk. if our motion pictures are not as successful as we anticipate they will be, or if we are not able to produce and distribute films according to the schedule we have planned, our financial performance will be negatively impacted. discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that discovery family channel will be successful. similarly, hasbro studios programming distributed both domestically and internationally, allspark animation and allspark pictures releases and backflip studio digital products compete with content from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by hasbro studios, allspark animation, allspark pictures and backflip studios, or other content appearing on discovery family channel, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in discovery family channel, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for discovery family channel. during 2017 we spent $48.0 million for television programming and film projects being developed by hasbro studios and we anticipate that we will continue spending at comparable or higher levels in 2018 and future years. at december 31, 2017, $238.0 million, or 4.5%, of our total assets, represented our investments in the discovery family channel. if the discovery family channel is not successful our investments may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. the children and family entertainment industry and consumer products industry are highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailers private label toy products our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry and the consumer products industry are, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. in addition, we compete with other companies who are focused on building their brands across multiple product and consumer categories. across our business, we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry and in the consumer products industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers and brand owners. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. further, ecommerce is growing significantly and accounting for a higher portion of the ultimate sales of our products to 14 table of contents consumers. ecommerce retailers tend to hold less inventory and take inventory closer to the time of sale to consumers than traditional retailers. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated, may reduce or eliminate the profitability of such products or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses can be significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. during 2015 and 2016, certain key currencies, such as the euro, russian ruble, and brazilian real depreciated significantly compared to the u.s. dollar. this depreciation had a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings. depreciation in key currencies during 2018 and beyond may have a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings as they are reported in u.s. dollars. global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. as an example of these risks, our revenues and profitability for 2017 were negatively impacted by economic downturns and resulting lower sales of our products in the united kingdom and in brazil. the economic downturn in the united kingdom was partly caused by uncertainly around brexit. if these markets, or other significant markets, experience economic difficulties in 2018 it can harm our business and financial results. an increasing portion of our business is expected to come from emerging markets, and growing business in emerging markets presents additional challenges. we expect an increasing portion of our net revenues to come from emerging markets in the future, including eastern europe, latin america, africa and asia. in 2017 revenues in emerging markets constituted approximately 14% of our net revenues, up from only 6% of our net revenues in 2010. over time, we expect our emerging market net revenues to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. operating in an increasing number of markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that we must meet. in addition to the need to successfully anticipate and serve different 15 table of contents global consumer preferences and interests, sales and operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to other risks associated with international operations, including: complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact our product offerings and related enforcement; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; and the imposition of tariffs, border adjustment taxes, quotas, or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of our emerging market net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our emerging market business. our business depends in large part on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, as well as disney princess and disney frozen. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel and star wars licenses have been highly significant to our business. in 2016 we began sales of products based on the disney princess and disney frozen properties, which contributed significantly to our performance. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. further, ecommerce is growing significantly and accounting for a higher portion of the ultimate sales of our products to consumers. ecommerce retailers tend to hold less inventory and take inventory closer to the time of sale to consumers than traditional retailers. as a result, customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that 16 table of contents we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 31, 2017, wal-mart stores, inc., toys r us, inc. and target corporation, accounted for approximately 19%, 9% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers, including wal-mart, toys r us and target, in the aggregate accounted for approximately 42% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 61% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. as an example of this, the bankruptcy filing by toys r us in the u.s. and canada in september 2017, and associated reductions in inventory taken by toys r us for the holiday season, as well as the inability of toys r us to pay certain outstanding receivables, significantly impacted our sales and profitability in the fourth quarter of 2017. we expect the ongoing financial situation with toys r us, including its difficulties in the united kingdom, will negatively impact our sales in 2018, with the greatest amount of that impact likely to be in the first half of 2018, and potentially for additional periods, based on the level of store closures and how much the sales lost through toys r us are picked up by other retail and e-commerce channels. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products, and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating progressive technology, integrating digital and analog play. these products can be more difficult and expensive to design and manufacture which may reduce margins on some or a portion of these products compared to more traditional toys and games and such products may have short life spans. as childhood evolves and children become more interested in sophisticated product offerings, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. to continue capturing the interest of sophisticated youth, we must offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. this is another key to our strategy; complementing analog play with digital integration and investing in technology development. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. costs associated with designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to sell enough of these advanced products, at prices high enough to recoup our costs and make a profit, is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products, and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a result, we can face increased risk of not achieving sales 17 table of contents sufficient to recover our costs and we may lose money on the development and sale of these products. additionally, designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products requires different competencies and follows different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of these products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such products. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 31, 2017, our net revenues from the international segment comprised approximately 43% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect net revenues from our international segment to continue accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in dollars and as a percentage of our overall business as a result of a key business strategy to expand our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers primarily located in the far east to produce most of our products. these international sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets , are subject to risks that may significantly harm our sales, increase our costs or otherwise damage our business, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions, which can materially increase our taxes and other costs of doing business; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, border adjustment taxes or other protectionist measures. because of the importance of international sales, sourcing and manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded-play entertainment 18 table of contents products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. in 2017 our business was negatively impacted by weaker economic conditions in the united kingdom and brazil, two of our significant markets. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street, disney princess, disney frozen, trolls, yokai-watch or beyblade, and the ability of us to successfully market and sell related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 31, 2017, we had $81.5 million of prepaid royalties, $31.4 million of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $50.1 million of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 31, 2017, we may be required to pay additional future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $279.6 million. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. with the sale of our remaining manufacturing facilities in 2015, all of our products are now manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. should changes be necessary, our external 19 table of contents sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, slow-downs, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. prolonged disputes or slowdowns at west coast ports can negatively impact both the time and cost of transporting goods into the united states. natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china can also have a significant negative impact on our business. further, the imposition of tariffs, border adjustment taxes, trade sanctions or other regulations or economic penalties by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from china or other foreign countries, or the loss of normal trade relations status with china or other foreign countries in which we operate, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china or another market in which we source products could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. if we are unable to successfully adapt to the evolution of gaming, our revenues and profitability may decline. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involved substantial changes in how we develop and market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, with a focus on understanding consumer insights, rapidly identifying and understanding social media trends, understanding popular gaming mechanics and in delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. our strategy involves making fundamental changes in how we design and develop our gaming products. we recognize the need to provide immersive game play that is easy for consumers to learn and play in shorter periods of time, as well as offer innovative face to face, off the board and digital gaming opportunities. people are gaming in greater numbers than ever before, but the nature of gaming has and continues to evolve quickly. to be successful our gaming offerings must evolve to anticipate and meet these changes in consumer gaming. our failure to successfully implement our strategy and to keep up with the evolution of gaming could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. 20 table of contents our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees around the world. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. additionally, we have experienced significant changes in our workforce from our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required for our changing global business. we have added hundreds of employees in our global markets, in licensing and in entertainment and storytelling capabilities, while reducing our workforce in other areas over the last several years. these changes in employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, have required changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. we intend to achieve this partly by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives and through process improvements, including in global product development. however, these actions are no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings goal and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from this initiative. our business is critically dependent on our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. our intellectual property, including our trademarks and tradenames, copyrights, patents, and rights under our license agreements and other agreements that establish our intellectual property rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of critical value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. similarly, third parties may claim ownership over certain aspects of our products or other intellectual property. our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business and competitive position. we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. however, as of december 31, 2017, we had $217.4 million of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we rely on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $1,000 million in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. 21 table of contents we also have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2020, which provides for a $1,000 million committed revolving credit facility and a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. this facility also supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. in addition, our financial covenants were set at the time we entered into our credit facility. our performance and financial condition may not meet our original expectations, causing us to fail to meet such financial covenants. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would most require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 31, 2017, we had $1,709.9 million of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the children online privacy protection act and other privacy laws around the world. the collection or personally identifiable information from anyone, including adults, is under increasing regulation in many markets, and in may of 2018 the general data protection regulation will become effective in the european union. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these acts could result in sanctions which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our 22 table of contents products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our growth and the development of our business, and that is likely to continue in the future. acquisitions can broaden and diversify our brand holdings and product offerings, and allow us to build additional capabilities and competencies around our brand blueprint. in reviewing potential acquisitions or investments, we target companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or offerings, the ability for us to leverage our family entertainment offerings, opportunities to drive our strategic brand blueprint and associated competencies, or other synergies. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. additionally, through our acquisition of backflip studios, we looked to strengthen our mobile gaming expertise. however, we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products, develop our competencies or to grow our business. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating, revenue or cost synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products, entertainment or services in the future. there is no guarantee that any acquisition or investment we may make will be successful or beneficial, and acquisitions can consume significant amounts of management attention and other resources, which may negatively impact other aspects of our business. failure to successfully operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including product development, management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, financial reporting and various other processes and transactions. we are critically dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and entertainment under development, and also contains certain customer, consumer, supplier, partner and employee data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion, cyber attacks or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct 23 table of contents our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, consumers, suppliers, partners, employees or ourselves, or failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of or damage to this data through breach of our information technology systems or other means could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our customers, consumers, employees and other business partners, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations, subject us to potentially significant costs and liabilities and result in a loss of business that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as a large multinational corporation, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us as well as claims by third parties that our products infringe upon or misuse such third parties property or rights. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in a significant number of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or differing interpretations of, income tax laws and rules, and changes in our geographic operating results, may impact our effective tax rate. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in various international tax jurisdictions. we also conduct business activities between our operating units in various jurisdictions and we are subject to transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate. there is some degree of uncertainty and subjectivity in complying with transfer pricing rules. our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in, or the interpretation of, tax laws or by changes in the amount of revenue and earnings we derive, or are determined to derive by tax authorities, from jurisdictions with differing tax rates. on december 22, 2017 the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ). the tax act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code that affected 2017, including the requirement for the company to pay a one-time transition tax on certain unrepatriated earnings of foreign subsidiaries that is payable over eight years. the tax act also established new tax laws that will affect 2018 and future years, including, but not limited to, (i) reducing the u.s. federal corporate tax rate from 35 to 21 percent; (ii) generally eliminating u.s. federal income taxes on dividends from foreign subsidiaries; (iii) requiring a current inclusion in u.s. federal taxable income of certain earnings of controlled foreign corporations; (iv) creating a new limitation on deductible interest expense; and (v) imposing limitations on the deductibility of certain executive compensation. the tax act requires complex computations to be performed, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the tax act and significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced by the company. the u.s. treasury department, the internal revenue service, and other standard-setting bodies could interpret or issue guidance on how provisions of the tax act will be applied or otherwise administered, with a possible retroactive effect, which is different from our interpretation. as we complete our analysis of the tax act, collect and prepare necessary data, and interpret any additional guidance, we may make adjustments to provisional amounts that we have recorded that may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. in addition, we may be subject to tax examinations by federal, state, and international jurisdictions, and these examinations can result in significant tax findings if the tax authorities interpret the application of laws and rules differently than we do or disagree with the intercompany rates we are applying. we assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from tax uncertainties. at december 31, 2017 we have a liability for uncertain tax benefits of $89.4 million. while we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax benefits, or results of possible current or future tax examinations, may differ from our estimates and may have a significant adverse impact on our business and operating results. 24 table of contents we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be evaluated for impairment at least annually. at december 31, 2017, $573.1 million, or 10.8%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. while we did not recognize any goodwill impairment charges in 2017, during the fourth quarter of 2016, in conjunction with the company annual review for impairment, the company recognized an impairment charge of $32.9 million related to backflip studios reducing the related goodwill to $86.3 million. in the future, should backflip studios not achieve its profitability and growth targets, including anticipated game releases in 2018 and beyond, the carrying value may become further impaired, resulting in additional impairment charges. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this report and is incorporated herein by reference. 49 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors. forward-looking information and risk factors that may affect future results from time to time, including in this form 10-k and in our annual report to shareholders, we publish forward-looking statements within the meaning of the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. these forward-looking statements may relate to matters such as our business and marketing strategies, anticipated financial performance or business prospects in future periods, expected technological and product developments, relationships with customers and suppliers, purchasing patterns of our customers and consumers, the expected content of and timing for scheduled new product introductions or our expectations concerning the future acceptance of products by customers, expected benefits and plans relating to acquired brands and properties, the content and timing of planned entertainment releases including motion pictures, television and digital products, marketing and promotional efforts, research and development activities, geographic plans, adequacy of supply, manufacturing capacity and expectations to reduce manufacturing in china, adequacy of our properties, expected benefits and cost-savings from certain restructuring actions, capital expenditures, working capital, liquidity, and other financial, tax, accounting and similar matters. forward-looking statements are inherently subject to risks and uncertainties. the private securities litigation reform act of 1995 provides a safe harbor for forward-looking statements. these statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking words or phrases such as anticipate, believe, could, expect, intend, looking forward, may, planned, potential, should, will and would or any variations of words with similar meanings. we note that a variety of factors could cause our actual results and experience to differ materially from the anticipated results or other expectations expressed or anticipated in our forward-looking statements. the factors listed below are illustrative and other risks and uncertainties may arise as are or may be detailed from time to time in our public announcements and our filings with the securities and exchange commission, such as on forms 8-k, 10-q and 10-k. we undertake no obligation to make any revisions to the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k or in our annual report to shareholders to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of the filing of this report. 12 table of contents our strategy involves focusing on franchise and key partner brands, and successfully developing, or in the case of partner brands, successfully working with our partners to develop, those brands across our brand blueprint in a wide array of innovative toys and games, consumer products, storytelling and digital experiences. if we are not successful in developing and expanding these critical brands our business will suffer. we have made a strategic decision to focus on fewer, larger global brands as we build our business. we are moving away from sku making behaviors, which involve developing a large number of different products across many brands, towards global brand building with an emphasis on developing our franchise and key partner brands, which we view as having the largest global potential. as we concentrate our efforts on a more select group of brands we can gain additional leverage and enhance the consumer experience. but this focus also means that our future success depends disproportionately on our and our partners ability to successfully develop this select group of brands across the brand blueprint and to maintain and extend the reach and relevance of these brands to global consumers in a wide array of markets. this strategy has required us to build and develop competencies in new areas, including storytelling, digital content and consumer products. developing and growing these competencies has required significant effort, time and money. in 2018, revenues from our seven franchise brands, baby alive, magic: the gathering, monopoly, nerf, my little pony, play-doh and transformers, totaled 53% of our aggregate net revenues. revenues from our key partner brands, including beyblade, disney princess and disney frozen, marvel, star wars, dreamworks trolls, and yo-kai watch, constituted 22% of our aggregate net revenues in 2018. together our franchise and partner brands account for the substantial majority of our revenues. if we are unable to successfully maintain and develop our franchise and key partner brands in the future, continue to drive their relevance to consumers and grow sales of products and storytelling experiences based on those brands, our revenues and profits will decline and our business performance will suffer. in addition to continuing to grow and develop our existing franchise brands, successfully executing our brand strategy requires us to successfully develop other brands, such as current emerging brands, and elevate them to franchise brand status over time. there is no guarantee that we will be able to do this successfully. as an example of this process, in february 2018 we elevated baby alive to franchise brand status and moved littlest pet shop, which we are in the process of reinventing and which requires a different developmental approach at this point, out of franchise brands and into emerging brands. consumer interests change rapidly, making it difficult to create storytelling experiences and to design and develop products which will be popular with children and families, or to maintain the popularity of successful products and brands. the interests of children and families evolve extremely quickly and can change dramatically from year to year. to be successful we must correctly anticipate the types of entertainment content, products and play patterns which will capture children and families interests and imagination and quickly develop and introduce innovative products which can compete successfully for consumers limited time, attention and spending. this challenge is more difficult with the ever-increasing utilization of technology and digital media in entertainment offerings, and the increasing breadth of entertainment available to consumers. evolving consumer tastes and shifting interests, coupled with an ever changing and expanding pipeline of entertainment and consumer properties and products which compete for children and families interest and acceptance, create an environment in which some products can fail to achieve consumer acceptance, and other products can be popular during a certain period of time but then be rapidly replaced. as a result, individual children and family entertainment products and properties often have short consumer life cycles. if we devote time and resources to developing and marketing entertainment and products that consumers do not find interesting enough to buy in sufficient quantities to be profitable to us, our revenues and profits may decline and our business performance may be damaged. similarly, if our product offerings and entertainment fail to correctly anticipate consumer interests our revenues and earnings will be reduced. additionally, our business is increasingly global and depends on interest in and acceptance of our children and family entertainment products and properties by consumers in diverse markets around the world with different tastes and preferences. as such, our success depends on our ability to successfully predict and adapt to changing consumer tastes and preferences in multiple markets and geographies and to design product and entertainment offerings that can achieve popularity globally over a broad and diverse consumer audience. there is no guarantee that we will be able to successfully develop and market products with global appeal. 13 table of contents the challenge of continuously developing and offering products and storytelling experiences that are sought after by children is compounded by the sophistication of today children and the increasing array of technology and entertainment offerings available to them. children are increasingly utilizing electronic offerings such as tablet devices and mobile phones and they are expanding their interests to a wider array of innovative, technology-driven entertainment products and digital and social media offerings at younger and younger ages. our products compete with the offerings of consumer electronics companies, digital media and social media companies. to meet this challenge we, and our competitors, are designing and marketing products which incorporate increasing technology, seek to integrate digital and analog play, and aim to capitalize on new play patterns and increased consumption of digital and social media. with the increasing array of competitive entertainment offerings, there is no guarantee that: any of our brands, products or product lines will achieve popularity or continue to be popular; any property for which we have a significant license will achieve or sustain popularity; any new products or product lines we introduce will be considered interesting to consumers and achieve an adequate market acceptance; or any product life cycle or sales quantities will be sufficient to permit us to profitably recover our development, manufacturing, marketing, royalties (including royalty advances and guarantees) and other costs of producing, marketing and selling the product. engaging storytelling across media is an increasingly important factor for driving brand awareness and successfully building brands. entertainment media, in forms such as television, motion pictures, digital content and other media, have become increasingly important platforms for consumers to experience our brands and our partners brands and the success, or lack of success, of such media efforts can significantly impact the demand for our products and our financial performance. we spend considerable resources in designing and developing products in conjunction with planned media releases, both by our partners and our own media releases. not only our efforts, but the efforts of third parties, such as licensors and motion picture studios with whom we work, heavily impact the amount, content and timing of media development, release dates and the ultimate consumer interest in and success of these media efforts. in 2018, we developed and marketed significant product lines tied to the motion picture releases by key partners of black panther, avengers: infinity wars and solo: a star wars story. in addition, we developed and marketed products related to bumblebee, a motion picture developed and released by us working with our partner paramount pictures. for 2019, we are developing and marketing significant product lines tied to the scheduled motion picture releases by key partners of a number of properties, including disney aladdin, disney frozen ii and star wars: episode ix. those motion pictures are all being developed and released by our partners and our partners control the content and schedule for such motion pictures. other key partner product lines we are offering, such as beyblade and yokai-watch, depend on television support by our partners for their successes. similarly, we are developing and marketing products for entertainment we play a more active role in developing or develop ourselves, such as transformers and my little pony. if those motion pictures, television shows, or any other key entertainment content for which we develop and market products are not as successful as we and our partners anticipate, our revenues and earnings will fall. the ultimate timing and success of such projects is critically dependent on the efforts and schedules of our licensors, and studio and media partners. we do not fully control when or if any particular motion picture projects will be greenlit, developed or released, and our licensors or media partners may change their plans with respect to projects and release dates or cancel development all together. this can make it difficult for us to get feature films developed, plan future entertainment slates and to successfully develop and market products in conjunction with future motion picture and other media releases, given the lengthy lead times involved in product development and successful marketing efforts, and the fact that third party partners of ours may decide not to develop such entertainment. when we say that products or brands will be supported by certain media releases, those statements are based on our current plans and expectations. unforeseen factors may increase the cost of these releases, delay these media releases or even lead to their cancellation. any delay or cancellation of planned product development work, introductions, or media support may decrease the number of products we sell and harm our business. 14 table of contents lack of sufficient consumer interest in entertainment media we or our partners produce or for which we offer products can harm our business. motion pictures, television, digital content or other media we produce or for which we develop products may not be as popular with consumers as we anticipated. while it is difficult to anticipate what products may be sought after by consumers, it can be even more difficult to properly predict the popularity of media efforts and properties given the broad array of competing offerings. if our or our partners media efforts, and related product offerings, fail to garner sufficient consumer interest and acceptance, our revenues and the financial return from such efforts will be harmed. under the relationship we entered with paramount in october 2017 we plan to play a more significant role in the production and financing of motion pictures based on our properties. that has the advantage of giving us more input to what and when properties are developed into motion pictures, and can allow us to earn a greater return from successful films, but it also increases the money we will directly spend on film production and puts that investment at risk. if our motion pictures are not as successful as we anticipate they will be, or if we are not able to produce and distribute films according to the schedule we have planned, due to creative or other difficulties or delays, our financial performance will be negatively impacted. discovery family channel, our cable television joint venture with discovery communications, inc. in the united states, competes with a number of other children television networks for viewers, advertising revenue and distribution fees. there is no guarantee that discovery family channel will be successful. similarly, our programming distributed both domestically and internationally, allspark animation and allspark pictures releases and backflip studio digital products compete with content from many other parties. lack of consumer interest in and acceptance of content developed by hasbro studios, allspark animation, allspark pictures and backflip studios, or other content appearing on discovery family channel, and products related to that content, could significantly harm our business. similarly, our business could be harmed by greater than expected costs, or unexpected delays or difficulties, associated with our investment in discovery family channel, such as difficulties in increasing subscribers to the network or in building advertising revenues for discovery family channel. during 2018 we spent $132.0 million for television programming and film projects we are developing and we anticipate that we will spend approximately $65.0 million to $85.0 million in 2019, and anticipate comparable or higher levels in future years. at december 30, 2018, $236.9 million, or 4.5%, of our total assets, represented our investments in the discovery family channel. if the discovery family channel is not successful our investments may become impaired, which could result in a write-down through net earnings. the children and family entertainment industry and consumer products industry are highly competitive and the barriers to entry are low. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new competitors or with our retailers private label toy products our revenues, market share and profitability could decline. the children and family entertainment industry and the consumer products industry are, and will continue to be, highly competitive. we compete in the united states and internationally with a wide array of large and small manufacturers, marketers, and sellers of analog toys and games, digital gaming products, digital media, products which combine analog and digital play, and other entertainment and consumer products, as well as with retailers who offer such products under their own private labels. in addition, we compete with other companies who are focused on building their brands across multiple product and consumer categories. across our business, we face competitors who are constantly monitoring and attempting to anticipate consumer tastes and trends, seeking ideas which will appeal to consumers and introducing new products that compete with our products for consumer acceptance and purchase. in 2018, for example, our nerf branded products faced significantly increased competition from both newer entrants into the blaster space, as well as private label offerings from major retailers. a number of these competitors sought to gain market share by offering products with less innovation than our products at price points below our products, particularly by offering blasters in the under $20 retail price range. in addition to existing competitors, the barriers to entry for new participants in the children and family entertainment industry and in the consumer products industry are low, and the increasing importance of digital media, and the heightened connection between digital media and consumer interest, has further increased the ability for new participants to enter our markets, and has broadened the array of companies we compete with. new participants with a popular product idea or entertainment property can gain access to consumers and become a significant source of competition for our products in a very short period of time. these existing and new competitors may be able to respond more rapidly than us to changes in consumer preferences. our competitors products may achieve greater market acceptance than our products and potentially reduce demand for our products, lower our revenues and lower our profitability. 15 table of contents in recent years, retailers have also developed their own private-label products that directly compete with the products of traditional manufacturers and brand owners. some retail chains that are our customers sell private-label children and family entertainment products designed, manufactured and branded by the retailers themselves. these products may be sold at prices lower than our prices for comparable products, which may result in lower purchases of our products by these retailers and may reduce our market share. an inability to develop and introduce planned products, product lines and new brands in a timely and cost-effective manner may damage our business. in developing products, product lines and new brands we have anticipated dates for the associated product and brand introductions. when we state that we will introduce, or anticipate introducing, a particular product, product line or brand at a certain time in the future those expectations are based on completing the associated development, implementation, and marketing work in accordance with our currently anticipated development schedule. there is no guarantee that we will be able to manufacture, source and ship new or continuing products in a timely manner and on a cost-effective basis to meet constantly changing consumer demands. this risk is heightened by our customers compressed shipping schedules and the seasonality of our business. further, ecommerce is growing significantly and accounting for a higher portion of the ultimate sales of our products to consumers. ecommerce retailers tend to hold less inventory and take inventory closer to the time of sale to consumers than traditional retailers. the risk is also exacerbated by the increasing sophistication of many of the products we are designing, and brands we are developing in terms of combining digital and analog technologies, utilizing digital media to a greater degree, and providing greater innovation and product differentiation. unforeseen delays or difficulties in the development process, significant increases in the planned cost of development, or changes in anticipated consumer demand for our products and new brands may cause the introduction date for products to be later than anticipated, may reduce or eliminate the profitability of such products or, in some situations, may cause a product or new brand introduction to be discontinued. our success depends on our ongoing ability to successfully evolve our capabilities and business to meet the challenges of a changing retail landscape and to successfully develop new aspects of our business 2018 was a year of significant retail disruption in our industry. our future success depends on our ability to continue evolving and transforming our business to address a changing global consumer landscape and retail environment, one in which online shopping accounts for an increasing percentage of total sales to consumers, digital first marketing is critical to garner and develop consumer interest, ecommerce focused companies like amazon.com, inc. are now among our largest customers, traditional brick and mortar retailers face challenges to their businesses from the disintermediation caused by the expanding prevalence of online shopping, and the presence of specialty toy retailers has been significantly reduced in many of our markets due to bankruptcies, such as that of toys r us, potentially reducing, at least in the shorter term, physical shelf space available to offer family entertainment properties. these market conditions require that we drive a digital-first orientation throughout our company, adapt the way we produce and distribute our products to meet the needs of ecommerce retailers, and continue developing alternate retail channels to reach our consumers and recapture shelf space lost by specialty retailers. in addition to successfully driving our business in a changing retail landscape, our future success depends on developing new areas of our business. a prime example of that is our initiative to drive our magic: the gathering brand through digital gaming and esports. we have invested considerable time and resources in our magic: the gathering arena online game, which is currently in open beta, and our magic: the gathering esports initiative. those initiatives require different skills, investments and business strategies than more traditional areas of our business and our ability to successfully and profitably develop and deploy those skills and strategies, and drive those businesses, will be a major factor in achieving future success for our company. changes in foreign currency exchange rates can significantly impact our reported financial performance. our global operations mean we produce and buy products, and sell products, in many different jurisdictions with many different currencies. as a result, if the exchange rate between the u.s. dollar and a local currency for an international market in which we have significant sales or operations changes, our financial results as reported in u.s. dollars, may be meaningfully impacted even if our business in the local currency is not significantly affected. as an example, if the dollar appreciates 10% relative to a local currency for an international market in which we had $200 million of net revenues, the dollar value of those sales, as they are translated into u.s. dollars, would decrease by $20 million in our consolidated financial results. as such, we would recognize a $20 million decrease in our net revenues, even if the actual level of sales in the foreign market had not changed. similarly, our expenses can be 16 table of contents significantly impacted, in u.s. dollar terms, by exchange rates, meaning the profitability of our business in u.s. dollar terms can be negatively impacted by exchange rate movements which we do not control. during 2018, certain key currencies, such as the euro, russian ruble, and brazilian real depreciated significantly against the u.s. dollar. this depreciation had a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings. depreciation in key currencies during 2018 and beyond may have a significant negative impact on our revenues and earnings as they are reported in u.s. dollars. global and regional economic downturns that negatively impact the retail and credit markets, or that otherwise damage the financial health of our retail customers and consumers, or other factors negatively impacting retail sales, can harm our business and financial performance. we design, manufacture and market a wide variety of entertainment and consumer products worldwide through sales to our retail customers and directly to consumers. our financial performance is impacted by the level of discretionary consumer spending in the markets in which we operate. recessions, credit crises and other economic downturns, or disruptions in credit markets, in the united states and in other markets in which our products are marketed and sold can result in lower levels of economic activity, lower employment levels, less consumer disposable income, and lower consumer confidence. similarly, reductions in the value of key assets held by consumers, such as their homes or stock market investments, can lower consumer confidence and consumer spending power. any of these factors can reduce the amount which consumers spend on the purchase of our products. this in turn can reduce our revenues and harm our financial performance and profitability. in addition to experiencing potentially lower revenues from our products during times of economic difficulty, in an effort to maintain sales during such times we may need to reduce the price of our products, increase our promotional spending and/or sales allowances, or take other steps to encourage retailer and consumer purchase of our products. those steps may lower our net revenues or increase our costs, thereby decreasing our operating margins and lowering our profitability. these challenges can be exacerbated if our customers accumulate excess retail inventories over time due to their purchases of our products exceeding sales of those products to ultimate consumers. it can then take us significant time, working with our retailers, to reduce those excess retail inventories, and in the interim our sales of new products can be negatively impacted. our business in europe in 2018 was significantly reduced by excess retail inventories that we needed to address during the year. our revenues and profitability for 2018 were negatively impacted by the ongoing economic challenges and resulting lower sales of our products in the united kingdom and in brazil. the economic downturn in the united kingdom is partly caused by uncertainly around brexit. if these markets, or other significant markets, experience economic difficulties in 2019 it can harm our business and financial results. an increasing portion of our business is expected to come from emerging markets, and growing business in emerging markets presents additional challenges. we expect an increasing portion of our net revenues to come from emerging markets in the future, including eastern europe, latin america, africa and asia. in 2018 revenues in emerging markets constituted approximately 14% of our net revenues, up from only 6% of our net revenues in 2010. over time, we expect our emerging market net revenues to continue to grow both in absolute terms and as a percentage of our overall business as one of our key business strategies is to increase our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. operating in an increasing number of markets, each with its own unique consumer preferences and business climates, presents additional challenges that we must meet. in addition to the need to successfully anticipate and serve different global consumer preferences and interests, sales and operations in emerging markets that we have entered, may enter, or may increase our presence in, are subject to other risks associated with international operations, including: complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations that impact our product offerings and related enforcement; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; and the imposition of tariffs, border adjustment taxes, quotas, or other protectionist measures. 17 table of contents because of the importance of our emerging market net revenues, our financial condition and results of operations could be harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our emerging market business. our business depends in large part on the success of our key partner brands and on our ability to maintain and extend solid relationships with our key partners. as part of our strategy, in addition to developing and marketing products based on properties we own or control, we also seek to obtain licenses enabling us to develop and market products based on popular entertainment properties owned by third parties. we currently have in-licenses to several successful entertainment properties, including marvel and star wars, disney princess and disney frozen, beyblade and dreamworks trolls. these licenses typically have multi-year terms and provide us with the right to market and sell designated classes of products. in recent years our sales of products under the marvel, star wars and beyblade licenses have been highly significant to our business. in 2016 we began sales of products based on the disney princess and disney frozen properties, which contributed to our performance. if we fail to meet our contractual commitments and/or any of these licenses were to terminate and not be renewed, or the popularity of any of these licensed properties was to significantly decline, our business would be damaged and we would need to successfully develop and market other products to replace the products previously offered under license. our license to the marvel property is granted from marvel entertainment, llc and marvel characters b.v. (together marvel ). our license to the star wars property is granted by lucas licensing ltd. and lucasfilm ltd. (together lucas ). both marvel and lucas are owned by the walt disney company. our business is seasonal and therefore our annual operating results will depend, in large part, on our sales during the relatively brief holiday shopping season. this seasonality is exacerbated by retailers quick response inventory management techniques. sales of our toys, games and other family entertainment products at retail are extremely seasonal, with a majority of retail sales occurring during the period from september through december in anticipation of the holiday season. this seasonality has increased over time, as retailers become more efficient in their control of inventory levels through quick response inventory management techniques. further, ecommerce is growing significantly and accounting for a higher portion of the ultimate sales of our products to consumers. ecommerce retailers tend to hold less inventory and take inventory closer to the time of sale to consumers than traditional retailers. as a result, customers are timing their orders so that they are being filled by suppliers, such as us, closer to the time of purchase by consumers. for toys, games and other family entertainment products which we produce, a majority of retail sales for the entire year generally occur in the fourth quarter, close to the holiday season. as a consequence, the majority of our sales to our customers occur in the period from september through december, as our customers do not want to maintain large on-hand inventories throughout the year ahead of consumer demand. while these techniques reduce a retailer investment in inventory, they increase pressure on suppliers like us to fill orders promptly and thereby shift a significant portion of inventory risk and carrying costs to the supplier. the level of inventory carried by retailers may also reduce or delay retail sales resulting in lower revenues for us. if we or our customers determine that one of our products is more popular at retail than was originally anticipated, we may not have sufficient time to produce and ship enough additional products to fully meet consumer demand. additionally, the logistics of supplying more and more product within shorter time periods increases the risk that we will fail to achieve tight and compressed shipping schedules, which also may reduce our sales and harm our financial performance. this seasonal pattern requires significant use of working capital, mainly to manufacture or acquire inventory during the portion of the year prior to the holiday season, and requires accurate forecasting of demand for products during the holiday season in order to avoid losing potential sales of popular products or producing excess inventory of products that are less popular with consumers. our failure to accurately predict and respond to consumer demand, resulting in under producing popular items and/or overproducing less popular items, would reduce our total sales and harm our results of operations. in 2018 we experienced a negative impact to our business from retailers continuing efforts to reduce the amount of overall inventory they carry and minimize carry-forward inventory coming out of the holiday season. additionally, some retailers are increasing their use of automated inventory replenishment programs, which we believe drove a significant reduction in reorders of our products by these retailers in the last weeks of december 2018. these trends negatively impacted our sales in 2018. if retailers continue to increase their use of automated replenishment programs, our inventory levels and sales may fluctuate, particularly in the fourth quarter. 18 table of contents in addition, as a result of the seasonal nature of our business, we would be significantly and adversely affected, in a manner disproportionate to the impact on a company with sales spread more evenly throughout the year, by unforeseen events such as a terrorist attack or economic shock that harm the retail environment or consumer buying patterns during our key selling season, or by events such as strikes or port delays that interfere with the shipment of goods, particularly from the far east, during the critical months leading up to the holiday shopping season. the concentration of our retail customer base means that economic difficulties or changes in the purchasing or promotional policies or patterns of our major customers could have a significant impact on us. we depend upon a relatively small retail customer base to sell the majority of our products. for the fiscal year ended december 30, 2018, wal-mart stores, inc. and target corporation accounted for approximately 20% and 9%, respectively, of our consolidated net revenues and our five largest customers in the aggregate accounted for approximately 38% of our consolidated net revenues. in the u.s. and canada segment, approximately 60% of the net revenues of the segment were derived from our top three customers. if one or more of our major customers were to experience difficulties in fulfilling their obligations to us, cease doing business with us, significantly reduce the amount of their purchases from us, favor competitors or new entrants, increase their direct competition with us by expanding their private-label business, change their purchasing patterns, alter the manner in which they promote our products or the resources they devote to promoting and selling our products, or return substantial amounts of our products, it could significantly harm our sales, profitability and financial condition. as an example of this, the bankruptcy filing by toys r us in the u.s. and canada in september 2017, and in the united kingdom in early 2018, and the subsequent liquidations of the toys r us business in many markets globally during 2018, as well as the inability of toys r us to pay certain outstanding receivables, significantly reduced our sales and profitability in the fourth quarter of 2017 and throughout 2018. the liquidation of millions of units of retail inventory held by toys r us into the market at closeout prices had a more substantial negative impact to sales of new products by us in 2018 than we, and industry experts, had initially expected in early 2018. customers make no binding long-term commitments to us regarding purchase volumes and make all purchases by delivering purchase orders. any customer could reduce its overall purchase of our products and reduce the number and variety of our products that it carries and the shelf space allotted for our products. in addition, increased concentration among our customers could also negatively impact our ability to negotiate higher sales prices for our products and could result in lower gross margins than would otherwise be obtained if there were less consolidation among our customers. furthermore, the bankruptcy or other lack of success of one or more of our other significant retail customers could negatively impact our revenues and profitability. part of our strategy to remain relevant to children and families is to offer innovative products incorporating progressive technology, integrating digital and analog play. these products can be more difficult and expensive to design and manufacture which may reduce margins on some or a portion of these products compared to more traditional toys and games and such products may have short life spans. as childhood evolves and children become more interested in sophisticated product offerings, such as video games, consumer electronics and social and digital media, at younger and younger ages, we have sought to keep our products relevant and interesting for these consumers. to continue capturing the interest of sophisticated youth, we must offer innovative children electronic toy and game products. this is another key to our strategy; complementing analog play with digital integration and investing in technology development. these electronic and digital products, if successful, can be an effective way for us to connect with consumers and increase our sales. however, children electronic and digital products, in addition to the risks associated with our other family entertainment products, also face certain additional risks. costs associated with designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products tend to be higher than for many of our other more traditional products, such as board games and action figures. the ability to sell enough of these advanced products, at prices high enough to recoup our costs and make a profit, is constrained by heavy competition in consumer electronics and entertainment products and can be further constrained by difficult economic conditions. as a result, we can face increased risk of not achieving sales sufficient to recover our costs and we may lose money on the development and sale of these products. additionally, designing, developing and producing technologically advanced or sophisticated products requires different competencies and follows different timelines than traditional toys and games. delays in the design, development or production of these products incorporated into or associated with traditional toys and games could have a significant impact on our ability to successfully offer such products. in addition, the pace of change in product offerings and consumer tastes in the electronics and digital gaming areas is potentially even greater than 19 table of contents for our other products. this pace of change means that the window in which a product can achieve and maintain consumer interest may be even shorter than traditional toys and games. our substantial sales and manufacturing operations outside the united states subject us to risks associated with international operations. we operate facilities and sell products in numerous countries outside the united states. for the year ended december 30, 2018, our net revenues from the international segment comprised approximately 40% of our total consolidated net revenues. we expect net revenues from our international segment to continue accounting for a significant portion of our revenues. in fact, over time, we expect our international sales and operations to continue to grow both in dollars and as a percentage of our overall business as a result of a key business strategy to expand our presence in emerging and underserved international markets. additionally, as we discuss below, we utilize third-party manufacturers primarily located in the far east to produce most of our products. these international sales and manufacturing operations, including operations in emerging markets, are subject to risks that may significantly harm our sales, increase our costs or otherwise damage our business, including: currency conversion risks and currency fluctuations; potential challenges to our transfer pricing determinations and other aspects of our cross border transactions, which can materially increase our taxes and other costs of doing business; political instability, civil unrest and economic instability; greater difficulty enforcing intellectual property rights and weaker laws protecting such rights; complications in complying with different laws in varying jurisdictions and in dealing with changes in governmental policies and the evolution of laws and regulations and related enforcement; difficulties understanding the retail climate, consumer trends, local customs and competitive conditions in foreign markets which may be quite different from the united states; natural disasters and the greater difficulty and cost in recovering therefrom; transportation delays and interruptions; difficulties in moving materials and products from one country to another, including port congestion, strikes and other transportation delays and interruptions; increased investment and operational complexity to make our products compatible with systems in various countries and compliant with local laws; changes in international labor costs and other costs of doing business internationally; and the imposition of tariffs, quotas, border adjustment taxes or other protectionist measures. to date tariffs have not had a material adverse impact to our overall business, and the only market in which we face significant tariffs currently is in brazil, where substantial import tariffs have been in place and do negatively impact our ability to price our products competitively while remaining profitable. however, if tariffs were to be imposed on substantial quantities of our products, such as if the united states were to impose tariffs on substantial quantities of our products manufactured in china and imported into the united states, that could have a material negative impact on our business and damage our sales and profitability, and take time to offset. because of the importance of international sales, sourcing and manufacturing to our business, our financial condition and results of operations could be significantly harmed if any of the risks described above were to occur or if we are otherwise unsuccessful in managing our increasing global business. other economic and public health conditions in the markets in which we operate, including rising commodity and fuel prices, higher labor costs, increased transportation costs, outbreaks of public health pandemics or other diseases, or third party conduct could negatively impact our ability to produce and ship our products, and lower our revenues, margins and profitability. various economic and public health conditions can impact our ability to manufacture and deliver products in a timely and cost-effective manner, or can otherwise have a significant negative impact on our revenues, profitability and business. significant increases in the costs of other products which are required by consumers, such as gasoline, home heating fuels, or groceries, may reduce household spending on the discretionary branded-play entertainment 20 table of contents products we offer. as we discussed above, weakened economic conditions, lowered employment levels or recessions in any of our major markets may significantly reduce consumer purchases of our products. in 2018 our business was negatively impacted by weaker economic conditions in the united kingdom and brazil, two of our significant markets. economic conditions may also be negatively impacted by terrorist attacks, wars and other conflicts, natural disasters, increases in critical commodity prices or labor costs, or the prospect of such events. such a weakened economic and business climate, as well as consumer uncertainty created by such a climate, could harm our revenues and profitability. our success and profitability not only depend on consumer demand for our products, but also on our ability to produce and sell those products at costs which allow for us to make a profit. rising fuel and raw material prices, for paperboard and other components such as resin used in plastics or electronic components, increased transportation costs, and increased labor costs in the markets in which our products are manufactured all may increase the costs we incur to produce and transport our products, which in turn may reduce our margins, reduce our profitability and harm our business. other conditions, such as the unavailability of sufficient quantities of electrical components, may impede our ability to manufacture, source and ship new and continuing products on a timely basis. additional factors outside of our control could further delay our products or increase the cost we pay to produce such products. for example, work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes, an outbreak of a severe public health pandemic, a natural disaster or the occurrence or threat of wars or other conflicts, all could impact our ability to manufacture or deliver product. any of these factors could result in product delays, increased costs and/or lost sales for our products. we may not realize the full benefit of our licenses if the licensed material has less market appeal than expected or if revenue from the licensed products is not sufficient to earn out the minimum guaranteed royalties. in addition to designing and developing products based on our own brands, we seek to fulfill consumer preferences and interests by producing products based on popular entertainment properties developed by third parties and licensed to us. the success of entertainment properties for which we have a license, such as marvel, star wars, sesame street, disney princess, disney frozen, dreamworks trolls, yokai-watch or beyblade, and the ability of us to successfully market and sell related products, can significantly affect our revenues and profitability. if we produce a line of products based on a movie or television series, the success of the movie or series has a critical impact on the level of consumer interest in the associated products we are offering. in addition, competition in our industry for access to entertainment properties can lessen our ability to secure, maintain, and renew popular licenses to entertainment products on beneficial terms, if at all, and to attract and retain the talented employees necessary to design, develop and market successful products based on these properties. the license agreements we enter to obtain these rights usually require us to pay minimum royalty guarantees that may be substantial, and in some cases may be greater than what we are ultimately able to recoup from actual sales, which could result in write-offs of significant amounts which in turn would harm our results of operations. at december 30, 2018, we had $72.7 million of prepaid royalties, $38.3 million of which are included in prepaid expenses and other current assets and $34.4 million of which are included in other assets. under the terms of existing contracts as of december 30, 2018, we may be required to pay additional future minimum guaranteed royalties and other licensing fees totaling approximately $387.8 million. acquiring or renewing licenses may require the payment of minimum guaranteed royalties that we consider to be too high to be profitable, which may result in losing licenses that we currently hold when they become available for renewal, or missing business opportunities for new licenses. additionally, as a licensee of entertainment-based properties we have no guaranty that a particular property or brand will translate into successful toy, game or other family entertainment products, and underperformance of any such products may result in reduced revenues and operating profit for us. we anticipate that the shorter theatrical duration for movie releases may make it increasingly difficult for us to profitably sell licensed products based on entertainment properties and may lead our customers to reduce their demand for these products in order to minimize their inventory risk. furthermore, there can be no assurance that a successful brand will continue to be successful or maintain a high level of sales in the future, as new entertainment properties and competitive products are continually being introduced to the market. in the event that we are not able to acquire or maintain successful entertainment licenses on advantageous terms, our revenues and profits may be harmed. our use of third-party manufacturers to produce our products, as well as certain other products, presents risks to our business. with the sale of our remaining manufacturing facilities in 2015, all of our products are now manufactured by third-party manufacturers, the majority of which are located in china. should changes be necessary, our external 21 table of contents sources of manufacturing can be shifted, over a significant period of time, to alternative sources of supply. if we were prevented or delayed in obtaining products or components for a material portion of our product line due to political, civil, labor or other factors beyond our control, including natural disasters or pandemics, our operations may be substantially disrupted, potentially for a significant period of time. this delay could significantly reduce our revenues and profitability and harm our business while alternative sources of supply are secured. given that our toy manufacturing is conducted by third-party manufacturers, the majority of whom are located in china, health conditions and other factors affecting social and economic activity in china and affecting the movement of people and products into and from china to our major markets, including north america and europe, as well as increases in the costs of labor and other costs of doing business in china, could have a significant negative impact on our operations, revenues and earnings. factors that could negatively affect our business include a potential significant revaluation of the chinese yuan, which may result in an increase in the cost of producing products in china, labor shortages and increases in labor costs in china as well as difficulties in moving products manufactured in china out of asia and through the ports in north america and europe, whether due to port congestion, labor disputes, slow-downs, product regulations and/or inspections or other factors. prolonged disputes or slowdowns at west coast ports can negatively impact both the time and cost of transporting goods into the united states. natural disasters or health pandemics impacting china can also have a significant negative impact on our business. further, the imposition of tariffs, border adjustment taxes, trade sanctions or other regulations or economic penalties by the united states or the european union against products imported by us from china or other foreign countries, or the loss of normal trade relations status with china or other foreign countries in which we operate, could significantly increase our cost of products imported into the united states or europe and harm our business. additionally, the suspension of the operations of a third-party manufacturer by government inspectors in china or another market in which we source products could result in delays to us in obtaining product and may harm sales. we have been working over the last several years to reduce our reliance on manufacturing in china, such as by moving production of certain products to facilities in other countries like india, vietnam and mexico, as well as by increasing production of our products in other markets, including in the united states. we plan to continue those efforts in future years, but there is no guarantee we will be as successful in these efforts as we plan. furthermore, many of these newer production facilities, such as in india and vietnam, raise other risks in that we are working with vendors who have not been manufacturing products like ours for as long as historical vendors in china. that means these new vendors must successfully develop the capability to manufacture our products to the quality and safety standards we require. we require our third-party manufacturers to comply with our global business ethics principles, which are designed to prevent products manufactured for us from being produced under inhumane or exploitive conditions. our global business ethics principles address a number of issues, including working hours and compensation, health and safety, and abuse and discrimination. in addition, we require that our products supplied by third-party manufacturers be produced in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, including consumer and product safety laws in the markets where those products are sold. hasbro has the right and exercises such right, both directly and through the use of outside monitors, to monitor compliance by our third-party manufacturers with our global business ethics principles and other manufacturing requirements. in addition, we do quality assurance testing on our products, including products manufactured for us by third parties. notwithstanding these requirements and our monitoring and testing of compliance with them, there is always a risk that one or more of our third-party manufacturers will not comply with our requirements and that we will not immediately discover such non-compliance. any failure of our third-party manufacturers to comply with labor, consumer, product safety or other applicable requirements in manufacturing products for us could result in damage to our reputation, harm sales of our products and potentially create liability for us. if we are unable to successfully adapt to the evolution of gaming, our revenues and profitability may decline. recognizing the critical need for increased innovation and a change in the way we go to market with gaming products in order to remain successful in the gaming business in the future, we began implementing a strategy in 2011 to reinvent our gaming business. our strategy to drive our gaming business in the future involved substantial changes in how we develop and market our gaming products to consumers and how we position them at retail, with a focus on understanding consumer insights, rapidly identifying and understanding social media trends, understanding popular gaming mechanics and in delivering industry leading innovation in gaming, a change in our allocation of focus across gaming brands, greater penetration of our brands into digital gaming and the successful combination of analog and digital gaming. our strategy involves making fundamental changes in how we design and develop our gaming products. we recognize the need to provide immersive game play that is easy for 22 table of contents consumers to learn and play in shorter periods of time, as well as offer innovative face to face, off the board and digital gaming opportunities. people are gaming in greater numbers than ever before, but the nature of gaming has and continues to evolve quickly. to be successful our gaming offerings must evolve to anticipate and meet these changes in consumer gaming. our failure to successfully implement our strategy and to keep up with the evolution of gaming could substantially harm our business, resulting in lost revenues and lost profits. our success is critically dependent on the efforts and dedication of our officers and other employees. our officers and employees are at the heart of all of our efforts. it is their skill, innovation and hard work that drive our success. we compete with many other potential employers in recruiting, hiring and retaining our senior management team and our many other skilled officers and other employees around the world. there is no guarantee that we will be able to recruit, hire or retain the senior management, officers and other employees we need to succeed. additionally, we have experienced significant changes in our workforce from our restructuring efforts and the recruitment and hiring of new skill sets required for our changing global business. we have added hundreds of employees in our global markets, in licensing and in entertainment and storytelling capabilities, while reducing our workforce in other areas over the last several years. these changes in employee composition, both in terms of global distribution and in skill sets, have required changes in our business. our loss of key management or other employees, or our inability to hire talented people with the skill sets we need for our changing business, could significantly harm our business. to remain competitive we must continuously develop new skills and work to increase efficiency and reduce costs, but there is no guarantee we will be successful in this regard. our business is extremely competitive, the pace of change in our industry is getting faster and our competitors are always working to be more efficient and profitable. to compete we must continuously improve our processes, increase efficiency and work to reduce our expenses. we intend to achieve this partly by focusing on fewer, more global brand initiatives and through process improvements, including in global product development. however, there is no guarantee we will achieve our cost savings and efficiency enhancing goals and we may realize fewer benefits than are expected from these initiatives. in 2018, in response to the continuing evolution of the global consumer landscape, shopping behaviors and the retail environment, we took certain actions as part of our ongoing efforts to transform and reimagine our business, to strengthen our connections with audiences and consumers, and enhance our ability to continue bringing meaningful brand experiences to life. these actions, defined earlier in this 10-k as the 2018 restructuring program, included a commercial reorganization as well as adding new capabilities based on our understanding of changing consumer behaviors and how our retailers are going to market, while also changing many of the ways we organize across our brand blueprint. the actions also included headcount reductions aimed at right-sizing our cost-structure. under the plan, we incurred pre-tax restructuring charges of $17.3 million in the first quarter of 2018, and $72 million in the fourth quarter of 2018 relating to severance and other employee costs. once these actions are completed, we expect that we will generate approximately $70 million to $80 million in gross annualized cost-reductions by 2020. the company expects that approximately $65 million of these gross savings will be realized in 2019. in line with the objectives of this program, we plan to reinvest approximately $10 to $15 million in new resources in 2019, generating a net savings of approximately $50 million to $55 million in 2019. however, there is no guarantee that our restructuring actions will deliver the cost-reductions we currently estimate or that our ongoing efforts to evolve our business will be as successful as we plan. our business is critically dependent on our intellectual property rights and we may not be able to protect such rights successfully. our intellectual property, including our trademarks and tradenames, copyrights, patents, and rights under our license agreements and other agreements that establish our intellectual property rights and maintain the confidentiality of our intellectual property, is of critical value. we rely on a combination of trade secret, copyright, trademark, patent and other proprietary rights laws to protect our rights to valuable intellectual property related to our brands in the united states and around the world. from time to time, third parties have challenged, and may in the future try to challenge, our ownership of our intellectual property in the united states and around the world. in addition, our business is subject to the risk of third parties counterfeiting our products or infringing on our intellectual property rights. we may need to resort to litigation to protect our intellectual property rights, which could result in substantial costs and diversion of resources. similarly, third parties may claim ownership over certain aspects of our products or other intellectual property. our failure to successfully protect our intellectual property rights could significantly harm our business and competitive position. 23 table of contents we have a material amount of acquired product rights which, if impaired, would result in a reduction of our net earnings. much of our intellectual property has been internally developed and has no carrying value on our consolidated balance sheets. however, as of december 30, 2018, we had $693.8 million of acquired product and licensing rights included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet. in 2018, based on estimates of future revenue from these rights, we recorded an impairment charge of $31.3 million. declines in the profitability of the acquired brands or licensed products or our decision to reduce our focus or exit these brands may impact our ability to recover the carrying value of the related assets and could result in an impairment charge. reduction in our net earnings caused by impairment charges could harm our financial results. we have relied on external financing, including our credit facility, to help fund our operations. if we were unable to obtain or service such financing, or if the restrictions imposed by such financing were too burdensome, our business would be harmed. due to the seasonal nature of our business, in order to meet our working capital needs, particularly those in the third and fourth quarters, we may rely on our commercial paper program, revolving credit facility and our other credit facilities for working capital. however, in 2018, we did not borrow under our commercial paper program or revolving credit facility. we currently have a commercial paper program which, subject to market conditions, and availability under our committed revolving credit facility, allows us to issue up to $1,000 million in aggregate amount of commercial paper outstanding from time to time as a source of working capital funding and liquidity. there is no guarantee that we will be able to issue commercial paper on favorable terms, or at all, at any given point in time. we also have a revolving credit agreement that expires in 2023, which provides for a $1,100.0 million committed revolving credit facility and a further source of working capital funding and liquidity. this facility also supports borrowings under our commercial paper program. the credit agreement contains certain restrictive covenants setting forth leverage and coverage requirements, and certain other limitations typical of an investment grade facility. these restrictive covenants may limit our future actions as well as our financial, operating and strategic flexibility. non-compliance with our debt covenants could result in us being unable to utilize borrowings under our revolving credit facility and other bank lines, a circumstance which potentially could occur when operating shortfalls would require supplementary borrowings to enable us to continue to fund our operations. not only may our individual financial performance impact our ability to access sources of external financing, but significant disruptions to credit markets in general may also harm our ability to obtain financing. in times of severe economic downturn and/or distress in the credit markets, it is possible that one or more sources of external financing may be unable or unwilling to provide funding to us. in such a situation, it may be that we would be unable to access funding under our existing credit facilities, and it might not be possible to find alternative sources of funding. we also may choose to finance our capital needs, from time to time, through the issuance of debt securities. our ability to issue such securities on satisfactory terms, if at all, will depend on the state of our business and financial condition, any ratings issued by major credit rating agencies, market interest rates, and the overall condition of the financial and credit markets at the time of the offering. the condition of the credit markets and prevailing interest rates have fluctuated significantly in the past and are likely to fluctuate in the future. variations in these factors could make it difficult for us to sell debt securities or require us to offer higher interest rates in order to sell new debt securities. the failure to receive financing on desirable terms, or at all, could damage our ability to support our future operations or capital needs or engage in other business activities. as of december 30, 2018, we had $1,709.9 million of total principal amount of long-term debt outstanding. if we are unable to generate sufficient available cash flow to service our outstanding debt we would need to refinance such debt or face default. there is no guarantee that we would be able to refinance debt on favorable terms, or at all. as a manufacturer of consumer products and a large multinational corporation, we are subject to various government regulations and may be subject to additional regulations in the future, violation of which could subject us to sanctions or otherwise harm our business. in addition, we could be the subject of future product liability suits or product recalls, which could harm our business. as a manufacturer of consumer products, we are subject to significant government regulations, including, in the united states, under the consumer products safety act, the federal hazardous substances act, and the flammable fabrics act, as well as under product safety and consumer protection statutes in our international 24 table of contents markets. in addition, certain of our products are subject to regulation by the food and drug administration or similar international authorities. in addition, advertising to children is subject to regulation by the federal trade commission, the federal communications commission and a host of other agencies globally, and the collection of information from children under the age of thirteen is subject to the provisions of the children online privacy protection act and other privacy laws around the world. the collection or personally identifiable information from anyone, including adults, is under increasing regulation in many markets, and in may of 2018 the general data protection regulation became effective in the european union. while we take all the steps we believe are necessary to comply with these acts and regulations, there can be no assurance that we will be in compliance and failure to comply with these requirements could result in fines, liabilities or sanctions which could have a significant negative impact on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we may also be subject to involuntary product recalls or may voluntarily conduct a product recall. while costs associated with product recalls have generally not been material to our business, the costs associated with future product recalls individually or in the aggregate in any given fiscal year could be significant. in addition, any product recall, regardless of direct costs of the recall, may harm consumer perceptions of our products and have a negative impact on our future revenues and results of operations. governments and regulatory agencies in the markets where we manufacture and sell products may enact additional regulations relating to product safety and consumer protection in the future and may also increase the penalties for failure to comply with product safety and consumer protection regulations. in addition, one or more of our customers might require changes in our products, such as the non-use of certain materials, in the future. complying with any such additional regulations or requirements could impose increased costs on our business. similarly, increased penalties for non-compliance could subject us to greater expense in the event any of our products were found to not comply with such regulations. such increased costs or penalties could harm our business. as a large, multinational corporation, we are subject to a host of governmental regulations throughout the world, including antitrust, customs and tax requirements, anti-boycott regulations, environmental regulations and the foreign corrupt practices act. complying with these regulations imposes costs on us which can reduce our profitability and our failure to successfully comply with any such legal requirements could subject us to monetary liabilities and other sanctions that could further harm our business and financial condition. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions or investments in joint ventures, or those benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. acquisitions and investments have been a component of our growth and the development of our business, and that is likely to continue in the future. acquisitions can broaden and diversify our brand holdings and product offerings, and allow us to build additional capabilities and competencies around our brand blueprint. in reviewing potential acquisitions or investments, we target brands, assets or companies that we believe offer attractive family entertainment products or offerings, the ability for us to leverage our family entertainment offerings, opportunities to drive our strategic brand blueprint and associated competencies, or other synergies. in june of 2018 we acquired the power rangers brand from saban properties as we believe this brand has the potential to be developed successfully around our brand blueprint. however, there is no guarantee that we will be able to develop power rangers as successfully as we believe we can. in the case of our joint venture with discovery, we looked to partner with a company that has shown the ability to establish and operate compelling entertainment channels. additionally, through our acquisition of backflip studios, we looked to strengthen our mobile gaming expertise. we cannot be certain that the products and offerings of companies we may acquire, or acquire an interest in, will achieve or maintain popularity with consumers in the future or that any such acquired companies or investments will allow us to more effectively market our products, develop our competencies or to grow our business. in some cases, we expect that the integration of the companies that we may acquire into our operations will create production, marketing and other operating, revenue or cost synergies which will produce greater revenue growth and profitability and, where applicable, cost savings, operating efficiencies and other advantages. however, we cannot be certain that these synergies, efficiencies and cost savings will be realized. even if achieved, these benefits may be delayed or reduced in their realization. in other cases, we may acquire or invest in companies that we believe have strong and creative management, in which case we may plan to operate them more autonomously rather than fully integrating them into our operations. we cannot be certain that the key talented individuals at these companies would continue to work for us after the acquisition or that they would develop popular and profitable products, entertainment or services in the future. there is no guarantee that any acquisition or investment we may make will be successful or beneficial, and acquisitions can consume significant amounts of management attention and other resources, which may negatively impact other aspects of our business. 25 table of contents failure to successfully operate our information systems and implement new technology effectively could disrupt our business or reduce our sales or profitability. we rely extensively on various information technology systems and software applications to manage many aspects of our business, including product development, management of our supply chain, sale and delivery of our products, financial reporting and various other processes and transactions. we are critically dependent on the integrity, security and consistent operations of these systems and related back-up systems. these systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, malware and other security breaches, catastrophic events such as hurricanes, fires, floods, earthquakes, tornadoes, acts of war or terrorism and usage errors by our employees or partners. the efficient operation and successful growth of our business depends on these information systems, including our ability to operate them effectively and to select and implement appropriate upgrades or new technologies and systems and adequate disaster recovery systems successfully. the failure of our information systems to perform as designed or our failure to implement and operate them effectively could disrupt our business, require significant capital investments to remediate a problem or subject us to liability. if our electronic data is compromised our business could be significantly harmed. we and our business partners maintain significant amounts of data electronically in locations around the world. this data relates to all aspects of our business, including current and future products and entertainment under development, and also contains certain customer, consumer, supplier, partner and employee data. we maintain systems and processes designed to protect this data, but notwithstanding such protective measures, there is a risk of intrusion, cyber-attacks or tampering that could compromise the integrity and privacy of this data. in addition, we provide confidential and proprietary information to our third-party business partners in certain cases where doing so is necessary to conduct our business. while we obtain assurances from those parties that they have systems and processes in place to protect such data, and where applicable, that they will take steps to assure the protections of such data by third parties, nonetheless those partners may also be subject to data intrusion or otherwise compromise the protection of such data. any compromise of the confidential data of our customers, consumers, suppliers, partners, employees or ourselves, or failure to prevent or mitigate the loss of or damage to this data through breach of our information technology systems or other means could substantially disrupt our operations, harm our customers, consumers, employees and other business partners, damage our reputation, violate applicable laws and regulations, subject us to potentially significant costs and liabilities and result in a loss of business that could be material. from time to time, we are involved in litigation, arbitration or regulatory matters where the outcome is uncertain and which could entail significant expense. as a large multinational corporation, we are subject, from time to time, to regulatory investigations, litigation and arbitration disputes, including potential liability from personal injury or property damage claims by the users of products that have been or may be developed by us as well as claims by third parties that our products infringe upon or misuse such third parties property or rights. because the outcome of litigation, arbitration and regulatory investigations is inherently difficult to predict, it is possible that the outcome of any of these matters could entail significant cost for us and harm our business. the fact that we operate in a significant number of international markets also increases the risk that we may face legal and regulatory exposures as we attempt to comply with a large number of varying legal and regulatory requirements. any successful claim against us could significantly harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. changes in, or differing interpretations of, income tax laws and rules, and changes in our geographic operating results, may impact our effective tax rate. we are subject to income taxes in the united states and in various international tax jurisdictions. we also conduct business activities between our operating units in various jurisdictions and we are subject to transfer pricing rules in the countries in which we operate. there is some degree of uncertainty and subjectivity in complying with transfer pricing rules. our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in, or the interpretation of, tax laws or by changes in the amount of revenue and earnings we derive, or are determined to derive by tax authorities, from jurisdictions with differing tax rates. on december 22, 2017 the u.s. government enacted comprehensive tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act (the tax act ). the tax act makes broad and complex changes to the u.s. tax code. we have complied with the tax act and all regulations that have been promulgated. our effective tax rate could be impacted by changes in, or the continuing interpretation of the tax act. 26 table of contents in addition, we may be subject to tax examinations by federal, state, and international jurisdictions, and these examinations can result in significant tax findings if the tax authorities interpret the application of laws and rules differently than we do or disagree with the intercompany rates we are applying. we assess the likelihood of outcomes resulting from tax uncertainties. at december 30, 2018 we have a liability for uncertain tax benefits of $50.3 million. while we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate outcome of these uncertain tax benefits, or results of possible current or future tax examinations, may differ from our estimates and may have a significant adverse impact on our business and operating results. we have a material amount of goodwill which, if it becomes impaired, would result in a reduction in our net earnings. goodwill is the amount by which the cost of an acquisition exceeds the fair value of the net assets we acquire. goodwill is not amortized and is required to be evaluated for impairment at least annually. at december 30, 2018, $485.9 million, or 9.2%, of our total assets represented goodwill. declines in our profitability may impact the fair value of our reporting units, which could result in a write-down of our goodwill and consequently harm our results of operations. during the fourth quarter of 2018, the company took a number of actions to react to a rapidly changing mobile gaming industry that resulted changes to the long-term projections for the backflip business which led the company to conclude the goodwill associated with the backflip reporting unit was impaired. the company recorded an impairment charge of $86.3 million for the year ended december 30, 2018. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. the information required by this item is included in item 7 of part ii of this form 10-k and is incorporated herein by reference. 52 table of contents