quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk............................. 45 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of verisign's investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at december 31, 2000, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. in addition, we generally invest in relatively short- term securities. as of december 31, 2000, 94% of our non-strategic investments mature in less than one year. the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and investments that are subject to market risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2000. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to market risk. maturing in ------------------------------- six months six months to one more than estimated or less year one year total fair value ---------- ---------- --------- ------- ---------- (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents............... 204,803 -- -- 204,803 204,737 weighted-average interest rate...................... 7.14% -- -- included in short-term investments............... 546,853 19,097 -- 565,950 565,591 weighted-average interest rate...................... 6.98% 6.82% -- included in long-term investments............... -- -- 50,880 50,880 50,997 weighted-average interest rate...................... -- -- 6.81% 45 exchange rate sensitivity verisign considers its exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. all revenues derived from affiliates other than verisign japan and thawte consulting are denominated in united states dollars and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. both the revenues and expenses of our majority-owned subsidiary in japan are denominated in japanese yen, and the revenues and expenses of our activities conducted through south africa are denominated in south african rand. in both regions, we believe this serves as a natural hedge against exchange rate fluctuations because although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the foreign currency against the united states dollar will result in lower revenues when translated to united states dollars, operating expenses will also be lower in these circumstances. our subsidiary in sweden has not had significant operations to date. because of our minimal exposure to foreign currencies, we have not engaged in any hedging transactions to date. equity price risk we own shares of common stock of several public companies. we value these investments using the closing fair market value for the last day of each month. these investments are subject to market price volatility. we reflect these investments in our balance sheet at their market value, with the unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in the "accumulated other comprehensive income" component of stockholders' equity. as a result of recent market price volatility of our publicly traded investments, we experienced a $88.9 million unrealized loss, net of tax on these investments during 2000. in addition, we have invested in equity instruments of several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the startup or development stages. these investments are accounted for under the cost method. we do not hedge against equity price changes. intangible asset risk we have a substantial amount of intangible assets. although at december 31, 2000 we believe our intangible assets are recoverable, changes in the economy, the business in which we operate and our own relative performance could change the assumptions used to evaluate intangible asset recoverability. we continue to monitor those assumptions and their consequent effect on the estimated recoverability of our intangible assets. 46quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk................ 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at december 31, 2001, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, u.s. government and 58 agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. in addition, we generally invest in relatively short-term securities. as of december 31, 2001, 43% of our short-term investments mature in less than one year. we do not hold any derivative financial instruments. the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and investments that are subject to market risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2001. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to market risk. maturing in --------------------------- six six months months or to one more than estimated less year one year total fair value --------- ------- --------- -------- ---------- (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents.. $ 97,830 $ -- $ -- $ 97,830 $ 97,840 weighted-average interest rate......... 2.65% -- -- included in short-term investments..... $132,090 $38,887 $222,563 $393,540 $396,840 weighted-average interest rate......... 3.21% 3.55% 4.99% exchange rate sensitivity we consider our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. all revenues derived from operations other than verisign japan k.k., thawte (south africa), registrars.com (canada), euro909 (europe) and domainnames.com (u.k.) are denominated in united states dollars and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. both the revenues and expenses of our majority-owned subsidiary in japan as well as our wholly owned subsidiaries and sales offices in south africa, europe, sweden, canada and the united kingdom are denominated in local currencies. in these regions, we believe this serves as a natural hedge against exchange rate fluctuations because although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the foreign currency against the united states dollar will result in lower revenues when translated to united states dollars, operating expenses will also be lower in these circumstances. because of our minimal exposure to foreign currencies, we have not engaged in any hedging activities, although if future events or changes in circumstances indicate that hedging activities would be beneficial, we may consider such activities. equity price risk we own shares of common stock of several public companies. we value these investments using the closing market value for the last day of each month. these investments are subject to market price volatility. we reflect these investments on our balance sheet at their market value, with the unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in the "accumulated other comprehensive income" component of stockholders' equity. we have also invested in equity instruments of several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the startup or development stages, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. in 2001, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non-public equity investments was other than temporary and we recognized a $89.1 million impairment loss. due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, and in light of current stock market conditions, we may incur future losses on the sales, write-downs or write-offs of our investments. we do not currently hedge against equity price changes. 59quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at december 31, 2002, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. in addition, we generally invest in relatively short-term securities. as of december 31, 2002, 70% of our non-strategic investments mature in less than one year. we do not hold any derivative financial instruments. the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and investments that are subject to market risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2002. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to market risk. maturing in six months or less six months to one year more than one year total estimated fair value (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents $ 128,017 $ $ $ 128,017 $ 128,031 weighted-average interest rate 1.70 % included in short-term investments $ 35,477 $ 10,237 $ 73,617 $ 119,331 $ 119,789 weighted-average interest rate 1.75 % 2.98 % 3.35 % exchange rate sensitivity we consider our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations to be minimal. all revenues derived from operations, other than verisign japan k.k., thawte (south africa), verisign australia limited, domainnames.com (u.k.) and our european digital brand management services business, are denominated in united states dollars and, therefore, are not subject to exchange rate fluctuations. revenues from international subsidiaries and affiliates accounted for approximately 9% of our revenues in 2002, 13% in 2001 and 14% in 2000. both the revenues and expenses of our majority-owned subsidiaries in japan and australia as well as our wholly-owned subsidiaries and sales offices in south africa, europe, and the united kingdom are denominated in local currencies. in these regions, we believe this serves as a natural hedge against exchange rate fluctuations because although an unfavorable change in the exchange rate of the foreign currency against the united states dollar will result in lower revenues when translated to united states dollars, operating expenses will also be lower in these circumstances. we have not engaged in any hedging activities, although if future events or changes in circumstances indicate that hedging activities would be beneficial, we may consider such activities. 57 table of contents equity price risk we own shares of common stock of public companies. we value these investments using the closing market value for the last day of each month. these investments are subject to market price volatility. we reflect these investments on our balance sheet at their market value, with the unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders equity. we have also invested in equity instruments of several privately held companies, many of which can still be considered in the startup or development stages, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. in 2002 and 2001, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non-public equity investments was other-than-temporary and we recognized impairment losses totaling $170.9 million and $89.1 million, respectively. due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, and in light of current stock market conditions, we may incur future losses on the sales, write-downs or write-offs of our investments. we do not currently hedge against equity price changes.risk factors 11 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: current global economic and financial conditions as well as their impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the communications and internet industries; volume of new domain name registrations and renewals; the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; our success in direct marketing and promotional campaigns and the impact of such campaigns on new registrations and renewal rates; in the case of our registry services business, any changes to the scope and success of marketing efforts by third-party registrars or their resellers; market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services, and in the case of our registry services business, the customers of the distributors of our services; continued development of our distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors' products and services; the impact of decisions by distributors to offer competing or replacement products or modify or cease their marketing practices; the availability of alternatives to our products; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services or services provided by third-party registrars or their resellers; potential attacks, including hacktivism, by nefarious actors, which could threaten the perceived reliability of our products and services; potential attacks on the service offerings of our distributors, such as ddos attacks, which could limit the availability of their service offerings and their ability to offer our products and services; changes in policies regarding internet administration imposed by governments or governmental authorities outside the u.s.; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events or armed conflict; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by our customers; and the uncertainties, costs and risks as a result of the sale of our authentication services business, including costs related to any retained liability related to existing and future claims or retained litigation. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 11 table of contents our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations, including the ongoing hostilities in the middle east, natural disasters, the eurozone crisis and the u.s. economic environment which is affected by the debt ceiling crisis and the renewed threats of ratings downgrades. for example, recently the ongoing economic instability in europe has limited the rate of growth of the domain name base and may continue to do so in the future. in addition, the economic, social and political environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and our ability to execute on any share repurchase plans. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the market, economic, social and political conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial position as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. the operation of our business depends on numerous factors. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks, and the extent to which domain names and the dns are used for e-commerce and communications; changes in internet user behavior, internet platforms, mobile devices and web-browsing patterns; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing distributors and customers; our ability to develop new products, services or other offerings; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction, and acceptance by our current or new customers, of new products and services, including our nia services; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events and armed conflict; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; our ability to implement remedial actions in response to any attacks by nefarious actors; and the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards, alternatives to our products and services and changing market conditions. 12 table of contents substantially all of our revenue is derived from our registry services business. limitations on our ability to raise prices on .com registrations could, materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. our registry services business, which derives most of its revenues from registration fees for domain names, generates substantially all of our revenue. if there is a disruption in the registry services business, including any disruption from changes in the domain name industry, changes in or challenges to our agreements with icann, including any changes resulting from legal challenges to these agreements, changes in our customers' or internet users' preferences, a downturn in the economy or changes in technology related to the use of domain names, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, a failure of the doc to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2018 could have a material adverse effect on our business. under the terms of the . com registry agreement and the cooperative agreement, there is uncertainty whether the doc will approve any exercise by the company of its right to increase the price per .com domain name under certain circumstances and whether the company will be able to successfully demonstrate to the doc that market conditions warrant removal of the pricing restrictions on .com domain names, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. there is also uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the potential increase in expenses and costs coupled with such factors as restrictions on increasing prices under the .com registry agreement and the cooperative agreement. issues arising from our agreements with icann, the doc and the gsa could harm our registry services business. we are parties to agreements (i) with the doc with respect to certain aspects of the dns, (ii) with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com gtld and (iii) with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the .net and .name gtlds. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, including consensus policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and .name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or .name gtlds and the doc could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement, which, in the case of the .com and .net registry agreements, could have a material adverse impact on our business; the doc's or icann's interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; under certain circumstances, the gsa could terminate our agreement to be the registry for the .gov gtld, which could have a material adverse impact on how the registry services business is perceived; and our registry services business faces, and could continue to face, legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars and registrants, and any adverse outcome from such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, under the .com , . net and . name registry agreements, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are prohibited from holding a greater than 15% ownership interest in any icann accredited registrar. this prohibition on cross-ownership currently applies to all eighteen icann gtlds, but does not apply to cctlds. icann has adopted a proposal to allow the operators of new gtlds to also own, be owned 100% by, or otherwise be affiliated with, a registrar. the impact of these changes to the distribution channel is uncertain but could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, icann has also adopted a procedure pursuant to which an operator of one of the existing eighteen icann gtlds can apply to remove the cross-ownership restrictions with respect to new, but not existing gtlds. if verisign were to seek removal of the cross-ownership restriction with respect to new gtlds, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc approval would be obtained. 13 table of contents challenges to internet administration could harm our registry services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing operation of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in dns administration; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. the affirmation of commitments established several multi-party review panels and contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight and review of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to verisign. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our registry services business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted, which may not also apply to our competitors. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2012, we had 138, or 13%, of our employees outside the u.s. expansion into international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as a small portion of our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars and some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies; high costs associated with repatriating profits to the u.s.; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; and reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business. 14 table of contents we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2012, we had $1.6 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $1.4 billion was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury and other u.s. government corporations and agencies meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the eurozone crisis and the u.s. debt ceiling crisis, which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. over the past several years, the volatility and disruption in the global credit market reached unprecedented levels. if the global credit market deteriorates further, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our financial results. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register domain names, the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, on-line gambling (especially as we consider providing nia services and registry services to this sector), counterfeit goods, and cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and even though these contracts are immaterial, they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the 13 root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a non-regulated basis. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and data needed to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. consequently, our registry services business could be harmed if any of the independent operators fails to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls, or if it or any of the third parties routing internet communications presents inconsistent data for the tlds or dns generally. 15 table of contents changes in internet user behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet search engines were to change the value of their algorithms on the use of a domain for finding a website; (iii) internet users' preferences or practices were to shift away from direct navigation; (iv) internet users were to significantly increase the use of web and mobile device applications to locate and access content; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on on-line advertising and/or the way that on-line networks compensate owners of websites could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google and yahoo!bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past (and may in the future) changed its search algorithm and pay-per-click advertising policies to provide less compensation for certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on on-line advertising and marketing may not increase as projected or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. changes in state taxation laws and regulations may discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. many internet merchants are not currently required to pay sales or other similar taxes in respect of shipments of goods into most states. however, state taxation laws and regulations may change in the future and one or more states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies that engage in online commerce. for example, the state of georgia passed a new law that requires certain online retailers to collect sales taxes starting october 1, 2012. the enactment of any such law in any state may impair the growth of e-commerce and discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes among third party registrars or their resellers as a result of consolidation or changes in ownership, management, or strategy could harm our registry services business. third-party registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. our registry services business, which generates substantially all of our revenue, derives most of its revenues from registrations and renewals of domain names, and decreased demand for and/or renewals of domain names could cause a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. 16 table of contents if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by hackers or nefarious actors; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. a failure in the operation of our tld name zone servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services recommended by us in conformance with industry best practices, a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could also result in the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those tlds for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. in addition, a failure in our nia services could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business could suffer. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain customer and employee information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated form of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat ( apt ) attacks and zero-hour threats, which means that the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. the shared registration system, the domain name root zone servers and tld name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware and software to our registry services operations. we expend significant time and money on the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as first disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. 17 table of contents we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force ( ietf ). to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to register, build equity in, or enforce the new logo for the company. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. the international use of the company's logo could present additional potential risks for third party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. a third party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits and investigations. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the 18 table of contents amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. see note 14, commitments and contingencies legal proceedings, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this 10-k for further information. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts, including in international markets. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, any changes by our distributors to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, if one or more of our distributors were to encounter financial difficulties, or if there were a significant reduction in marketing expenditures by our distributors (including registrars or their resellers), as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a decrease in domain name registrations and renewals. failure of one or more of our strategic, channel or other relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars, based upon their registrant needs, may choose to focus their short- or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings, and if we are unable to maintain their focus on our products and services or move through them to engage the same registrants, this could harm our business. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exploring a variety of possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the pursuit of new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings or initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name , including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. the success of our nia services depends in part on the acceptance of our services. we are investing in our nia services, and the future growth of these services depends, in part, on the commercial success, acceptance, and reliability of our nia services. these services will suffer if our target customers do not adopt or use these services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our nia services or continue to use these services even after adoption. we rely on third parties to provide products which are incorporated in our nia services. the nia services incorporate and rely on third party hardware and software products, many of which have unique capabilities. if verisign was unable to procure these third party products, the nia services may malfunction, not perform as well as they should perform, not perform as well as they have been performing or not perform as planned, and our business could suffer. 19 table of contents many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. our registry services and nia services businesses are developing services in emerging markets, including services that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting internet access and availability, e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees, and we have experienced changes in our management team during the last few years. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or our board, and cannot be called by our stockholders; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. 20 table of contents a significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our swiss subsidiaries. our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. various legislative proposals that would reform u.s. corporate tax laws have been proposed by the obama administration as well as members of congress, including proposals that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we are unable to predict whether these or other proposals will be implemented. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense or cash flow. our inability to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations. deferred income taxes are not provided on most of the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries because these earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested and we do not plan to initiate any action that would precipitate the payment of income taxes thereon. we consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment: the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of the parent and subsidiaries for both the long and short term; the tax consequences of a decision to reinvest; and any u.s. and foreign government programs designed to influence remittances. if factors change and as a result we are unable to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings, the income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from the current period and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the sec, including those that require us to report on and receive an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting. despite our efforts, if we were to fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, our financial position could be harmed and current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our stock price, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in sterling, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, service providers or others. risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in registry services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the .info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .pro, .aero, .museum, .coop and .xxx gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. icann currently has registry agreements with 16 registries for the operation of 18 21 table of contents gtlds. in addition, there are over 250 latin script cctld registries and 38 idn cctld registries. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling, methods of distribution, the introduction of new registry services and use of registrars that do not apply to cctlds and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. if other registries launch marketing campaigns for new or existing tlds, including forms of marketing campaigns that we are prohibited from running under the terms of our agreements with icann, which result in registrars or their resellers giving other tlds greater prominence on their websites, advertising or marketing materials, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and our business could suffer. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are neustar, inc., afilias limited, ari registry services and nominet uk, inc. in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google inc., microsoft corporation, and yahoo! inc., operators of social networks such as facebook, and operators of microblogging tools such as twitter. furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications. competition in network intelligence and availability services : several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully. we face competition in the network intelligence and availability services industry from companies or services such as isight partners, ibm x-force, secunia aps, dell secureworks, mcafee, inc., prolexic technologies, inc., at&amp;t inc., verizon communications, inc., dyn, inc., neustar, inc., opendns, bluecat networks, inc., infoblox inc., nominum, inc., afilias limited and akamai technologies, inc. we may face additional competition, operational and other risks from the introduction of new tlds by icann, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. additional competition to our business may arise from the introduction of new tlds by icann. icann announced the introduction of new gtlds, which include idn gtlds. on october 30, 2009, icann approved a fast track process for the awarding of new idn cctlds and such new idn cctlds have started to be introduced into the root. on june 13, 2012, icann announced it received 1930 applications to operate over 1400 unique new gtlds, with new registration opportunities expected to be available beginning in 2013. we do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new domain extensions may have on our business, including if or how the introduction of these new gtlds will affect registrations for .com and .net and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. applicants for new gtlds include companies which may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, including companies that are existing competitors, domain name registrars and new entrants into the domain name industry. furthermore, icann will allow the operators of new gtlds to also own, be owned 100% by or otherwise affiliated with a registrar, whereas we are currently prohibited by our agreements with icann and the doc from owning more than 15% of a registrar. as a result, operators of new gtlds may be able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration. icann has also approved a process pursuant to which an operator of an existing gtld could apply to become a registrar with respect to a new gtld. at least one gtld operator has successfully used this process; however, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc would approve the necessary changes to verisign's existing agreements to allow us to vertically integrate with respect to new gtlds, in which case, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. we have applied for 14 gtlds, including 12 idn gtlds. there is no certainty that we will ultimately obtain these gtlds, and even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no guarantee that such extensions will be any more successful than the domain name extensions obtained by our competitors. similarly, while we have entered into agreements to provide back-end registry services to other applicants for approximately 220 new gtlds, there is no guarantee that such applicants with which we have entered into agreements will be successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions or that such domain extensions will be successful. furthermore, icann has stated that it will need to limit the maximum number of new gtlds that may be delegated in a year to 1,000 which will delay the granting of some gtlds. even though idn gtlds have been given priority, other factors related to the application process that could delay or disrupt an application and the timing of revenue generation, if any, from these gtlds. the timing of revenue may also be dependent on how diligently our customers proceed to delegation and launch following the completion of 22 table of contents the application process and our customers' respective launch plans for the new gtlds. in addition, our agreements to provide back-end registry services directly to other applicants and indirectly through reseller relationships expose us to operational and other risks. for example, the increase in the number of gtlds for which we provide registry services on a standalone basis or as a back-end service provider could further increase costs or increase the frequency or scope of targeted attacks from nefarious actors. finally, idn tlds face additional challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize idn tlds and may be slow to adopt standards even if demand for such products is strong. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or anticipate or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to the sale of our authentication services business and the completion of our divestitures we face risks related to the terms of the sale of the authentication services business. under the agreement reached with symantec for the sale of our authentication services business (the symantec agreement ), we agreed to several terms that may pose risks to us, including the potential for confusion by the public with respect to symantec's right to use certain of our trademarks, brands and domain names, as well as the risk that current or potential investors in or customers of the company may incorrectly attribute to the company problems with symantec products or services that currently use the verisign brand pursuant to a license granted by the company to symantec. any such confusion may have a negative impact on our reputation, our brand and the market for our products and services. in addition, we may determine that certain assets transferred to symantec could have been useful in our naming services businesses or in other future endeavors, requiring us to forego future opportunities or design or purchase alternatives which could be costly and less effective than the transferred assets. further, we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect from the sale of our authentication services business. under the terms of the symantec agreement, we have licensed rights to certain of our domain name registrations to symantec. we are at risk that our customers will go to a url for a licensed domain name and be unable to locate our registry or nia services. in addition, we will continue to maintain the registration rights for the domain names licensed to symantec for which symantec has sole control over the displayed content, and we may be subject to claims of infringement if symantec posts content that is alleged to infringe the rights of a third party. we continue to be responsible for certain liabilities following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with the buyers of certain divested businesses, including the authentication services business, we remain liable for certain liabilities related to the divested businesses. there is a possibility that we will incur unanticipated costs and expenses associated with management of liabilities relating to the businesses we have divested, including requests for indemnification by the buyers of the divested businesses. these liabilities could potentially relate to (i) breaches of contractual representations and warranties we gave to the buyers of the divested businesses, or (ii) certain liabilities relating to the divested businesses that we retained under the agreements reached with the buyers of the divested businesses. such liabilities could include certain litigation matters, including actions brought by third parties. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be contractually allocated to the buyer or shared with the buyer or another party, it is possible that the buyer or the other party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of those obligations. following the divestiture of certain businesses, our ability to compete in certain market sectors is restricted. under the agreements reached with buyers for certain businesses we divested, including the authentication services business, we are restricted from competing, either directly or indirectly, with those businesses or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time pursuant to negotiated non-compete arrangements. 23 table of contents risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2012, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 153.4 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 18.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 (the convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of long-term debt outstanding. in addition to the convertible debentures, we have a facility with a borrowing capacity of $200.0 million. as of december 31, 2012, we had borrowed $100.0 million under the facility. the availability of borrowing capacity under the facility allows us immediate access to working capital if we identify opportunities for the use of this cash. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities. the facility is described in note 7, debt and interest expense, of the notes to consolidated financial statements of our 2012 form 10-k. we may not have the ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of convertible debentures; occurrence of certain events related to our convertible debentures might have significant adverse accounting, disclosure, tax, and liquidity implications. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of debt outstanding. holders of our outstanding convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture dated as of august 20, 2007 (the indenture ) between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee. although, in certain situations, the indenture requires us to pay this repurchase price in cash, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. if in the future the convertible debentures become convertible, and, if holders elect to convert their convertible debentures, we are permitted under the indenture to pursue an exchange in lieu of conversion or to settle the settlement amount (as defined in the indenture) in cash, stock, or a combination thereof. we currently have the intent and the ability (based on current facts and circumstances) to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash. however, if the principal amount of the convertible debentures due to holders as a result of rights to convert or require repurchase exceeds our cash on hand and cash from operations, we will need to draw cash from existing financing or pursue additional sources of financing to settle the convertible debentures in cash. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain new sources of financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, nor can we assure that we will be able to obtain such financing in time to settle the convertible debentures that holders elect to convert or require the company to repurchase. if we do not have adequate cash available, either from cash on hand, funds generated from operations or existing financing arrangements, or cannot obtain additional financing arrangements, we will not be able to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash and, in the case of settlement of conversion elections, will be required to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in stock. if we settle any portion of the principal amount of convertible debentures in stock, it will result in immediate dilution to the interests of existing security holders and the dilution could be material to such security holders. if our intent to settle the principal amount in cash changes, or if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. earnings per share will most likely be lower under the if-converted method as compared to the treasury stock method. 24 table of contents if the amount paid (in cash or stock) to settle the convertible debentures (i.e., the settlement amount) is less than the adjusted issue price, under the internal revenue code and the regulations thereunder, the difference is included in taxable income as recapture of previous interest deductions. the adjusted issue price grows over the term of the convertible debentures due to the difference between the interest deduction for tax, using a comparable yield rate of 8.5%, and the coupon rate of 3.25%, compounded annually. the settlement amount will vary based on the stock price at settlement date. depending on the settlement amount for the convertible debentures at the settlement date, the amount included in taxable income as a result of this recapture could be substantial, which could adversely impact our cash flow. a fundamental change may constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the convertible debentures when required would result in an event of default with respect to the convertible debentures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 43 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity the interest rates on our revolving credit facility are affected by changes in market interest rates. as of december 31, 2012, we had $100.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on our interest expense in 2013. our marketable securities consist of fixed income securities which are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2012 we had $1.5 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted primarily of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2012, we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $40.2 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market value of our convertible debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of the convertible debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the convertible debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2012, the fair value of the convertible debentures was approximately $1.6 billion , based on available market information from public data sources. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on convertible debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the convertible debentures. 43 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: deterioration of global economic and financial conditions as well as their impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the communications and internet industries; volume of new domain name registrations and renewals; our success in direct marketing and promotional campaigns and the impact of such campaigns on new registrations and renewal rates; in the case of our registry services business, any changes to the scope and success of marketing efforts by third-party registrars or their resellers; market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services, and in the case of our registry services business, the customers of the distributors of our services; continued development of our distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors' products and services; the impact of the removal of the right to increase prices for . com domain names in four of six years up to seven percent, as was permitted under the 2006 . com registry agreement; the impact of decisions by distributors to offer competing or replacement products, including new gtlds, or modify or cease their marketing practices; the impact of icann's registry agreement for new gtlds, which requires the distribution of new gtlds only through registrars who have executed the new raa. the availability of alternatives to our products; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; icann's plan for the introduction of new gtlds, which could cause security, stability and resiliency problems that could substantially and permanently harm our business; in the case of our nia services business, the long sales cycles for some of our services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; potential attacks, including hacktivism, by nefarious actors, which could threaten the reliability or the perceived reliability of our products and services; potential attacks on the service offerings of our distributors, such as ddos attacks, which could limit the availability of their service offerings and their ability to offer our products and services; changes in policies regarding internet administration imposed by governments or governmental authorities inside or outside the u.s.; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events or armed conflict; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by our customers; and the uncertainties, costs and risks as a result of the sale of our authentication services business, including costs related to any retained liability related to existing and future claims. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenses, which are expensed in full when incurred. any or all of the above factors could impact our revenues and operating results. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 11 table of contents our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations, including the ongoing hostilities in the middle east, natural disasters, the eurozone crisis, currency fluctuations, potential fallout from the disclosures related to the u.s. internet and communications surveillance and the uncertainties of the u.s. economic environment. for example, recently the ongoing challenging economic conditions in europe have possibly limited the rate of growth of the domain name base and may continue to do so in the future. more generally, the economic, social and political environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and our ability to execute on any share repurchase plans. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the market, economic, social and political conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. the operation of our business depends on numerous factors. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks, and the extent to which domain names and the dns are used for e-commerce and communications; changes in internet user behavior, internet platforms, mobile devices and web-browsing patterns; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing distributors and customers; our ability to develop new products, services or other offerings; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction, and acceptance by our current or new customers, of new products and services, including our nia services; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events, armed conflict and currency fluctuations; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; our ability to implement remedial actions in response to any attacks by nefarious actors; and the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards, alternatives to our products and services and changing market conditions. 12 table of contents substantially all of our revenue is derived from our registry services business. limitations on our ability to raise prices on .com registrations and any failure to renew key agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our registry services business, which derives most of its revenues from registration fees for domain names, generates substantially all of our revenue. if there is a disruption in the registry services business, including any disruption from changes in the domain name industry, changes in or challenges to our agreements with icann, including any changes resulting from legal challenges to these agreements, changes in our customers' or internet users' preferences, a downturn in the economy or changes in technology related to the use of domain names, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, a failure of the doc to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2018 could have a material adverse effect on our business. under the terms of the cooperative agreement, the company has the right to petition for potential relief from the . com registry agreement's pricing restrictions. however, there is uncertainty whether the doc will approve any exercise by the company of its right to increase the price per .com domain name under certain circumstances and whether the company will be able to successfully demonstrate to the doc that market conditions warrant removal of the pricing restrictions on .com domain names, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. there is also uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the potential increase in expenses and costs coupled with such factors as restrictions on increasing prices under the .com registry agreement and the cooperative agreement or any other changes to pricing terms in these agreements upon renewal. issues arising from our agreements with icann, the doc and the gsa could harm our registry services business. we are parties to agreements (i) with the doc with respect to certain aspects of the dns, (ii) with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com gtld and (iii) with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the .net and .name gtlds. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, including consensus policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and .name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; icann has adopted registry agreements for new gtlds that include the right for icann to amend the agreement without a registry operator's consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. icann might seek to impose this same unilateral right to amend other registry agreements with us under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on registry operators that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with providing new gtlds; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or .name gtlds and the doc could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement on similar terms, or at all, and if any of the foregoing events occur, in the case of the .com and .net registry agreements, it would have a material adverse impact on our business; if we seek a price increase with respect to . com domain names during the term of the . com registry agreement or at the time of the renewal of the . com registry agreement, the doc could refuse to approve price increases with respect to .com domain names; the doc's or icann's interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; under certain circumstances, the gsa could terminate our agreement to be the registry for the .gov gtld, which could have a material adverse impact on how the registry services business is perceived; and contracts within our registry services business have faced, and could continue to face, challenges, including possible legal challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, under the .com , . net and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition. however, icann has established a process whereby these registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in some instances. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, unless prohibited by icann as noted above, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to cctld operators. 13 table of contents the impact of these changes to the distribution channel is uncertain but could have a material adverse effect on our business if operators of new or existing gtlds are able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration. if verisign were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements with respect to existing gtlds, or in the future with respect to new gtlds, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc approval would be obtained. challenges to internet administration or changes to our pricing terms could harm our registry services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing operation of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, or seek to change its role, potentially resulting in changes to internet governance that could pose a risk to our business, including instability in dns administration; icann is mandated by the affirmation of commitments by the doc and icann to uphold a bottom-up or multi-stakeholder internet governance approach. we believe recent actions by icann have signaled a willingness to abandon this model on certain important issues that impact our business and the internet community. if icann fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business and our relationship with icann; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. the affirmation of commitments established several multi-party review panels and contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight and review of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to verisign. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our registry services business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted, which may not also apply to our competitors. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2013, we had 133, or 12% of our employees outside the u.s. doing business in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business in some international locations or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting cctlds which we do not operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as a small portion of our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars and some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies; high costs associated with repatriating profits to the u.s., which could impact us due to the large percentage of our 14 table of contents cash currently held by us outside the u.s. (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources ); potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, online gambling (especially as we consider providing nia services and registry services to this sector), counterfeit goods, and cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and even though these contracts are immaterial, they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. we operate two root zone servers and are contracted to perform the root zone maintainer function. under icann's new gtld program, we face increased risk from these operations. we administer and operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. under the cooperative agreement, we also function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative data for the root zone itself and periodically distribute it to all root zone server operators. under its new gtld program, icann intends to recommend for delegation into the root zone up to 1,400 new tlds potentially within a compressed timeframe. on october 23, 2013, the doc began to authorize, and verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gtlds. in view of our role as the root zone maintainer, and as a root operator, we face increased risks should icann's delegation of these new tlds cause security and stability problems within the dns and/or for parties who rely on the dns. such risks include potential instability of the dns including potential fragmentation of the dns should icann's delegations create sufficient instability, and potential claims based on our role in the root zone provisioning and delegation process. these risks, alone or in the aggregate, have the potential to cause serious harm to our registry services business. further, our business could also be harmed through security, stability and resiliency degradation if the delegation of new tlds into the root zone causes problems to certain components of the dns ecosystem or the third parties routing internet communications present inconsistent data for these new tlds or other aspects of the global dns or other relying parties are negatively impacted as a result of unaddressed domain name collisions. 15 table of contents changes in internet user behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet search engines were to change the value of their algorithms on the use of a domain for finding a website; (iii) internet users' preferences or practices were to shift away from direct navigation; (iv) internet users were to significantly increase the use of web and mobile device applications to locate and access content; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on online advertising and/or the way that online networks compensate owners of websites could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo! and bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites, and pay-per-click advertising policies to provide less compensation for certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. changes in federal or state tax laws and regulations may discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. many internet merchants are not currently required to collect sales taxes in respect of shipments of goods into states where they lack physical presence. however, state tax laws and regulations may change in the future and one or more states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies that engage in online commerce. for example, several states (most recently the state of minnesota) have enacted affiliate nexus laws which require online retailers without a physical presence in the state to begin collecting sales taxes if a significant number of local sales are generated by brick and mortar affiliates operating in the state. in addition, it is possible that national legislation may be enacted requiring online retailers with greater than $1 million in sales in a state, but without any physical presence in the state, to begin collecting sales taxes. this federal legislation, the marketplace fairness act of 2013 (s. 743), passed the senate in 2013 and is currently before the house judiciary committee. the enactment of any such state or federal laws may impair the growth of e-commerce and discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes among registrars or their resellers as a result of consolidation or changes in ownership, management, or strategy could harm our registry services business. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. our registry services business, which generates substantially all of our revenue, derives most of its revenues from registrations and renewals of domain names, and decreased demand for and/or renewals of domain names could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 table of contents undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by hackers or nefarious actors; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. a failure in the operation of our tld name servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services recommended by us in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. a failure in the operation or update of the root master database that we maintain could also result in the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those tlds for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. in addition, a failure in our nia services could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business could suffer. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain customer and employee information in our secure data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat ( apt ) attacks and zero-hour threats, which means that the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to 17 table of contents defend against. the shared registration system, the domain name root zone servers and tld name servers that we operate are critical hardware and software to our registry services operations. we expend significant time and money on the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as first disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, outages resulting from destructive malcode, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. we are frequently subject to large-scale ddos attacks. our networks have been and likely will continue to be subject to ddos attacks of increasing size and sophistication. we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks but there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any successful attack, or partially successful attack, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our registry services customers and the broader internet community. further, we sell ddos protection services to nia services customers. although our contracts with these customers provide that we may prioritize all or part of these services at no liability to us in order to preserve our operational stability, the provision of such services might expose us to very large-scale ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any directed specifically against us and our networks. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our applications, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the new logo for verisign in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. 18 table of contents we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for third party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. a third party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits and investigations. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. see note 14, commitments and contingencies legal proceedings, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for further information. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts, including in international markets. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, any changes by our distributors to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, if one or more of our distributors were to encounter financial difficulties, or if there were a significant reduction in marketing expenditures by our distributors (including registrars or their resellers), as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a decrease in domain name registrations and renewals. failure of one or more of our strategic, channel or other relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. 19 table of contents with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars, based upon their registrant needs, may choose to focus their short- or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms, and if we are unable to maintain their focus on our products and services or move through them to engage the same registrants, this could harm our business. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exploring a variety of possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the pursuit of new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings or initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name , including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. the success of our nia services depends in part on the acceptance of our services. we are investing in our nia services, and the future growth of these services depends, in part, on the commercial success, acceptance, and reliability of our nia services. we continually evaluate and evolve the terms and conditions upon which these services are sold. these services may not experience success or acceptance as a result of changes to the terms and conditions. also, these services will suffer if our target customers do not adopt or use these services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our nia services or continue to use these services even after adoption. we rely on third parties to provide products which are incorporated in our nia services. the nia services incorporate and rely on third party hardware and software products, many of which have unique capabilities. if verisign is unable to procure these third party products, the nia services may malfunction, not perform as well as they should perform, not perform as well as they have been performing or not perform as planned, and our business could suffer. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. our registry services and nia services businesses are developing services in emerging markets, including services that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting internet access and availability, e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. 20 table of contents we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees, and we have experienced changes in our management team during the last few years. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or our board, and cannot be called by our stockholders; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. a significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year was earned by our swiss subsidiaries. our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. as described further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, we expect to claim a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and have recorded, during the fourth quarter of 2013, an income tax benefit of $375.3 million , net of valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions recorded as required under u.s. gaap. this worthless stock deduction may be subject to audit and adjustment by the irs, which could result in the reversal of all, part or none of the income tax benefit, or could result in a benefit higher than the net amount recorded. if the irs rejects or reduces the amount of the income tax benefit related to the worthless stock deduction, we may have to pay additional cash income taxes, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we cannot guarantee what the ultimate outcome or amount of the benefit we receive, if any, will be. 21 table of contents various legislative proposals that would reform u.s. corporate tax laws have been proposed by the obama administration as well as members of congress, including proposals that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we are unable to predict whether these or other proposals will be implemented. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense or cash flow. our inability to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. as described further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, during the second or third quarter of 2014, we intend to repatriate approximately $700.0 million to $800.0 million of cash held by foreign subsidiaries in a tax efficient manner by using the tax benefits resulting from the worthless stock deduction to offset the taxable income generated in the u.s. as a result of the intended repatriation. the repatriation amount utilizes substantially all of the projected available distributable capital reserves of our foreign subsidiaries under applicable foreign statutes. deferred income taxes are not provided for any funds remaining in the foreign subsidiaries after the intended repatriation because these earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested. we consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment: the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of the parent and subsidiaries for both the long and short term; the tax consequences of a decision to reinvest; and any u.s. and foreign government programs designed to influence remittances. if these factors change and as a result we are unable to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings, the income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from the current period and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2013, we had $1.7 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $1.4 billion was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the u.s. debt ceiling crisis and the eurozone crisis, which affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. during the 2008 financial crisis, the volatility and disruption in the global credit market reached unprecedented levels. if the global credit market deteriorates again or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our financial results, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the sec, including those that require us to report on and receive an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting. despite our efforts, if we were to fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, our financial condition could be harmed and current and potential future security holders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our stock price, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. 22 table of contents we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in registry services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence. in addition to the three gtlds we operate (. com , . net and . name ), and the 18 other operational gtlds delegated before october 23, 2013, there are over 250 latin script cctld registries and 38 idn cctld registries. under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling, methods of distribution, the introduction of new registry services and use of registrars that do not apply to cctlds and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. if other registries launch marketing campaigns for new or existing tlds, including forms of marketing campaigns that we are prohibited from running under the terms of our agreements with icann, which result in registrars or their resellers giving other tlds greater prominence on their websites, advertising or marketing materials, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and our business could suffer. in addition, on october 23, 2013, the doc began to authorize, and verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gtlds. icann is executing registry agreements with new gtld applicants, awarding up to 1,400 new gtlds in an initial round under its new gtld program, and plans on offering a second round of new gtlds after the the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. for additional information about the potential risks presented by these new gtlds, see -we may face additional competition, operational and other other risks from the introduction of new gtlds by icann, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are neustar, inc., afilias limited, ari registry services, donuts inc. and rightside inc. in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google, microsoft, and yahoo!, operators of social networks such as facebook, and operators of microblogging tools such as twitter. furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications. competition in nia services : several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully. in addition, it may be difficult to compete against consolidation and partnerships among our competitors which create integrated product suites. 23 table of contents we face competition in the network intelligence and availability services industry from companies or services such as isight partners, ibm x-force, secunia aps, dell secureworks, mcafee, inc., prolexic technologies, inc., at&amp;t inc., verizon communications, inc., dyn, inc., neustar, inc., opendns, bluecat networks, inc., infoblox inc., nominum, inc., afilias limited and akamai technologies, inc. we may face additional competition, operational and other risks from the introduction of new gtlds by icann, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additional competition to our business may arise from the introduction of new tlds by icann. on october 30, 2009, icann approved a fast track process for the awarding of new idn cctlds, which have started to be introduced into the dns root zone. additionally, on june 13, 2012, icann announced it received 1,930 applications to operate over 1,400 unique new gtlds. icann has begun executing registry agreements with these new gtld applicants in connection with this initial round of gtld applications and intends to continue recommending up to 1,400 new gtlds for delegation into the root zone. on october 23, 2013, the doc began to authorize, and verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gtlds. icann plans on offering a second round of new gtlds after the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. as set forth in the verisign labs technical report #1130007 version 2.2: new gtld security and stability considerations released on march 28, 2013, we continue to believe there are issues regarding the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. we do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new gtlds may have on our business, including if or how the introduction of these new gtlds will affect registrations for .com and .net and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. applicants for new gtlds include companies which may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, including companies that are existing competitors, domain name registrars and new entrants into the domain name industry. in addition, under the .com , . net and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition. however, icann has established a process whereby these registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in some instances. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, unless prohibited by icann as noted above, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to cctld operators. if verisign were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements with respect to existing gtlds, or in the future with respect to new gtlds, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc approval would be obtained; without such changes, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. we have applied for 14 new gtlds, including 12 idn gtlds. although we have been invited by icann to begin the contracting process for 12 of our 14 new gtld applications, there is no certainty that we will ultimately obtain these gtlds. icann has stated that it will need to limit the maximum number of new gtlds that may be delegated in a year to 1,000, which could delay the activation of some approved new gtlds. even though idn gtlds have been given priority, other factors related to the application process could delay or disrupt an application and the timing of revenue generation, if any, from these gtlds. even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new gtlds, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be any more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the gtlds we have applied for face additional universal acceptability and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn tlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. similarly, while we originally entered into agreements to provide back-end registry services to other applicants for approximately 220 new gtlds, and applicants for approximately 200 new gtlds currently continue to contract with us to provide back-end registry services, there is no guarantee that such applicants with which we have entered into agreements will be successful in obtaining one or more of these new gtlds or that such new gtlds will be successful due to the same factors discussed above in connection with out gtld application, we also cannot guarantee that we will ultimately provide back-end registry services for such amount of new gtlds. icann's registry agreement for new gtlds requires the distribution of new gtlds only through registrars who have executed the new raa. if registrars do not execute the new raa, our ability to provide back-end services would be reduced, negatively impacting the sale of our back-end services for new gtlds. even if we are able to provide such services, the timing of revenue may also be dependent on how diligently our customers proceed to delegation and launch following the completion of the application process and our customers' respective launch plans for the new gtlds. 24 table of contents in addition, our agreements to provide back-end registry services directly to other applicants and indirectly through reseller relationships expose us to operational and other risks. for example, the increase in the number of gtlds for which we provide registry services on a standalone basis or as a back-end service provider could further increase costs or increase the frequency or scope of targeted attacks from nefarious actors. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or anticipate or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to the sale of our authentication services business and the completion of our divestitures we face risks related to the terms of the sale of the authentication services business. under the agreement reached with symantec for the sale of our authentication services business (the symantec agreement ), we agreed to several terms that may pose risks to us, including the potential for confusion by the public with respect to symantec's right to use certain of our trademarks, brands and domain names, as well as the risk that current or potential investors in or customers of the company may incorrectly attribute to the company problems with symantec products or services that currently use the verisign brand pursuant to a license granted by the company to symantec. any such confusion may have a negative impact on our reputation, our brand and the market for our products and services. in addition, we may determine that certain assets transferred to symantec could have been useful in our naming services businesses or in other future endeavors, requiring us to forego future opportunities or design or purchase alternatives which could be costly and less effective than the transferred assets. under the terms of the symantec agreement, we have licensed rights to certain of our domain name registrations to symantec. we are at risk that our customers will go to a url for a licensed domain name and be unable to locate our registry or nia services. in addition, we will continue to maintain the registration rights for the domain names licensed to symantec for which symantec has sole control over the displayed content, and we may be subject to claims of infringement if symantec posts content that is alleged to infringe the rights of a third party. we continue to be responsible for certain liabilities following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with the buyers of certain divested businesses, including the authentication services business, we remain liable for certain liabilities related to the divested businesses. there is a possibility that we will incur unanticipated costs and expenses associated with management of liabilities relating to the businesses we have divested, including requests for indemnification by the buyers of the divested businesses. these liabilities could potentially relate to (i) breaches of contractual representations and warranties we gave to the buyers of the divested businesses, or (ii) certain liabilities relating to the divested businesses that we retained under the agreements reached with the buyers of the divested businesses. such liabilities could include certain litigation matters, including actions brought by third parties. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be contractually allocated to the buyer or shared with the buyer or another party, it is possible that the buyer or the other party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of those obligations. following the divestiture of the authentication services business, our ability to compete with that business is restricted. under the symantec agreement, we are restricted from directly competing with the authentication services business for a defined period of time pursuant to a negotiated non-compete arrangement. 25 table of contents risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2013, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 133.7 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 16.4 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 (the subordinated convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the subordinated convertible debentures and our senior notes due 2023 (the senior notes ), we have a substantial amount of long-term debt outstanding. in addition to the subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes, we have an unsecured credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $200.0 million (the unsecured credit facility ) and the ability to request from time to time that the lenders thereunder agree on a discretionary basis to increase the aggregate commitments amount by up to $150.0 million. as of december 31, 2013, we had no borrowings under the unsecured credit facility. it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations and will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under those agreements. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks and limitations related to our level of indebtedness could intensify. specifically, a high level of indebtedness could have adverse effects on our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities, including the following: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements, or requiring us to make non-strategic divestitures, particularly when the availability of financing in the capital markets is limited; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; having to repatriate cash held by foreign subsidiaries which would require us to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our businesses and the markets in which we compete; placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the indenture that governs the senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our unsecured credit facility contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our debt. 26 table of contents we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness, including the senior notes, and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. moreover, in the event funds from foreign operations are needed to repay our debt obligations and u.s. tax has not already been provided, we would be required to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our unsecured credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are not guarantors of the senior notes or our other indebtedness. repayment of our indebtedness is substantially dependent on the generation of cash flow by verisign, inc. our non-guarantor subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. future guarantor subsidiaries, if any, may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. such subsidiaries are distinct legal entities, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. while our unsecured credit facility limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. if we cannot service our debt obligations with our cash flows and domestic cash on hand, we may be required to repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries, which would be subject to u.s. federal income tax, or may otherwise be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the senior notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our unsecured credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, certain holders of our subordinated convertible debentures could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions and create the risk of default on such indebtedness. the credit agreement that governs our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including, subject to certain exceptions, restrictions on our ability to: permit our subsidiaries to incur or guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends or other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions. 27 table of contents in addition, the restrictive covenants in our unsecured credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. a breach of the covenants or restrictions under our unsecured credit facility or the indenture governing the senior notes could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under our unsecured credit facility would permit the lenders under our unsecured credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that agreement. in the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. these restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. in addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. some of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that appear on our consolidated balance sheet may not be available for use in our business or to meet our debt obligations without adverse income tax consequences. as of december 31, 2013, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the senior notes or our other indebtedness, was $1.5 billion. as described further in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 of this annual report on form 10-k, during the second or third quarter of 2014, we intend to repatriate approximately $700.0 million to $800.0 million of cash held by foreign subsidiaries. for any funds remaining in the foreign subsidiaries after the intended repatriation that have not been previously taxed in the u.s., our intent is to indefinitely reinvest those funds outside of the u.s. in the event that funds from our foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the united states or to meet our debt obligations, and if u.s. tax has not already been provided, we would be required to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes in order to repatriate those funds. in light of the foregoing, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that appear on our balance sheet may overstate the amount of liquidity we have available to meet our business or debt obligations, including obligations under the senior notes. we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control. upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events and if the senior notes are rated below investment grade by both rating agencies that rate the senior notes, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. additionally, under our unsecured credit facility, a change of control (as defined therein) constitutes an event of default that permits the lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings under the unsecured credit facility and the commitments to lend would terminate. the source of funds for any repurchase of the senior notes and repayment of borrowings under our unsecured credit facility would be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries' operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the debt securities that are tendered upon a change of control and repay our other indebtedness that will become due. if we fail to repurchase the senior notes in that circumstance, we will be in default under the indenture that governs the senior notes. we may require additional financing from third parties to fund any such repurchases, and we may be unable to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all. further, our ability to repurchase the senior notes may be limited by law. in order to avoid the obligation to repurchase the senior notes and events of default and potential breaches of our unsecured credit facility, we may have to avoid certain change of control transactions that would otherwise be beneficial to us. 28 table of contents in addition, certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations, may not, under the indenture that governs the senior notes, constitute a change of control that would require us to repurchase the senior notes, even though those corporate events could increase the level of our indebtedness or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure, credit ratings or the value of the senior notes. additionally, holders may not be able to require us to purchase their senior notes in certain circumstances involving a significant change in the composition of our board of directors, including a proxy contest where our board of directors approves for purposes of the change of control provisions of the indenture, but does not endorse, a dissident slate of directors. in this regard, decisions of the delaware chancery court (not involving us or our securities) considered a change of control redemption provision contained in an indenture governing publicly traded debt securities that was substantially similar to the change of control redemption provision in the indenture that governs the senior notes with respect to continuing directors. in these cases, the court noted that the board of directors may approve a dissident shareholder's nominees solely to avoid triggering the change of control redemption provision of the indenture without supporting their election if the board determines in good faith that the election of the dissident nominees would not be materially adverse to the interests of the corporation or its stockholders (without taking into consideration the interests of the holders of debt securities in making this determination). further, according to these decisions, the directors' duty of loyalty to shareholders under delaware law may, in certain circumstances, require them to give such approval. furthermore, the exercise by the holders of senior notes of their right to require us to repurchase the senior notes pursuant to a change of control offer could cause a default under the agreements governing our other indebtedness, including future agreements, even if the change of control itself does not, due to the financial effect of such repurchases on us. in the event a change of control offer is required to be made at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing senior notes, we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain such prohibitions. if we do not obtain a consent or repay those borrowings, we will remain prohibited from purchasing senior notes. in that case, our failure to purchase tendered senior notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture which could, in turn, constitute a default under our other indebtedness. finally, our ability to pay cash to the holders of senior notes upon a repurchase pursuant to a change of control offer may be limited by our then existing financial resources. a lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. any lowering of our rating likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. we may not have the ability to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures; occurrence of certain events related to our subordinated convertible debentures might have significant adverse accounting, disclosure, tax, and liquidity implications. as a result of the sale of the subordinated convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of debt outstanding. holders of our outstanding subordinated convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture governing the subordinated convertible debentures dated as of august 20, 2007 between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee (the 2007 indenture ). although, in certain situations, the 2007 indenture requires us to pay this repurchase price in cash, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. the subordinated convertible debentures continue to be convertible due to our stock price exceeding the conversion price threshold trigger, and, if holders elect to convert their subordinated convertible debentures, we are permitted under the 2007 indenture to pursue an exchange in lieu of conversion or to settle the settlement amount (as defined in the 2007 indenture) in cash, stock, or a combination thereof. if we choose not to pursue or cannot complete an exchange in lieu of a conversion, we currently have the intent and the ability (based on current facts and circumstances) to settle the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in cash. however, if the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures due to holders as a result of rights to convert or require repurchase exceeds our cash on hand and cash from operations, we will need to draw cash from existing financing or pursue additional sources of financing to settle the subordinated convertible debentures in cash. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain new sources of financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, nor can we assure that we will be able to obtain such financing in time to settle the subordinated convertible debentures that holders elect to convert or require the company to repurchase. 29 table of contents if we do not have adequate cash available, either from cash on hand, funds generated from operations or existing financing arrangements, or cannot obtain additional financing arrangements, we will not be able to settle the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in cash and, in the case of settlement of conversion elections, will be required to settle the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in stock. if we settle any portion of the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in stock, it will result in immediate dilution to the interests of existing security holders and the dilution could be material to such security holders. if our intent to settle the principal amount in cash changes, or if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. earnings per share will most likely be lower under the if-converted method as compared to the treasury stock method. if the amount paid (in cash or stock) to settle the subordinated convertible debentures (i.e., the settlement amount) is less than the adjusted issue price, under the internal revenue code and the regulations thereunder, the difference is included in taxable income as recapture of previous interest deductions. the adjusted issue price grows over the term of the subordinated convertible debentures due to the difference between the interest deduction for tax, using a comparable yield rate of 8.5%, and the coupon rate of 3.25%, compounded annually. the settlement amount will vary based on the stock price at settlement date. depending on the settlement amount for the subordinated convertible debentures at the settlement date, the amount included in taxable income as a result of this recapture could be substantial, which could adversely impact our cash flow. a fundamental change may constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures when required would result in an event of default with respect to the subordinated convertible debentures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity our marketable securities consist of fixed income securities which are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2013, we had $1.4 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2013, we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $27.0 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the subordinated convertible debentures are subject to market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures, the fair market value will increase as the market price of our common stock increases, and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes but do not impact our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2013, the fair value of the subordinated convertible debentures was approximately $2.2 billion and the fair value of the senior notes was $723.3 million, based on available market information from public data sources. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on subordinated convertible debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 10 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: deterioration of global economic and financial conditions as well as their impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the communications and internet industries; volume of new domain name registrations and renewals; our success in direct marketing and promotional campaigns and the impact of such campaigns on new registrations and renewal rates; any changes to the scope and success of marketing efforts by third-party registrars or their resellers in the case of our registry services business, and by our sales channels, including resellers, referrers and oems, in the case of our nia services business; market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services, and in the case of our registry services business, the customers of the distributors of our services; continued development of our distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors' products and services; the impact of decisions by distributors to offer competing or replacement products, including cctlds and new gtlds, or modify or cease their marketing practices, including with respect to new gtlds; the impact of icann's registry agreement for new gtlds (the new gtld registry agreement ), which requires the distribution of new gtlds only through registrars who have executed the 2013 registrar accreditation agreement ( the 2013 raa ) as well as accepting a unilateral right of icann to amend the new gtld registry agreement; the availability of alternatives to our products; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; the introduction of new gtlds, which could cause security, stability and resiliency problems that could possibly harm the industry and could substantially and permanently harm our business; in the case of our nia services business, the long sales cycles for some of our services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; potential attacks, including hacktivism, by nefarious actors, which could threaten the reliability or the perceived reliability of our products and services; potential attacks on the service offerings of our distributors, such as ddos attacks, which could limit the availability of their service offerings and their ability to offer our products and services; changes in policies regarding internet administration imposed by governments or governmental authorities inside or outside the u.s.; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events or armed conflict; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by our customers; and the uncertainties, costs and risks as a result of the sale of our authentication services business, including costs related to any retained liability related to existing and future claims. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from most of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenses, which are expensed in full when incurred. 10 any or all of the above factors could impact our revenues and operating results. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not necessarily be meaningful. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment, including the ongoing hostilities in the middle east and ukraine, natural disasters, conflicts in europe, currency fluctuations, country specific operating regulations, and potential fallout from the disclosures related to the u.s. internet and communications surveillance may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations. for example, recently the ongoing challenging economic conditions in europe have possibly limited the rate of growth of the domain name base and may continue to do so in the future. more generally, the economic, social and political environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and our ability to execute on any share repurchase plans. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the market, economic, social and political conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. 11 the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks, and the extent to which domain names and the dns are used for e-commerce and communications; changes in internet user behavior, internet platforms, social networks, mobile devices and web-browsing patterns; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing distributors and customers; our ability to develop new products, services or other offerings; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction, and acceptance by our current or new customers, of new products and services; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events, armed conflict and currency fluctuations; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; our ability to implement remedial actions in response to any attacks by nefarious actors; the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards, alternatives to our products and services and changing market conditions; and the successful introduction and compliance with consensus policies as they pertain to thick whois and privacy issues for personally identifiable information of .com and .net registrants. substantially all of our revenue is derived from our registry services business. limitations on our ability to raise prices on domain name registrations and any failure to renew key agreements could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. our registry services business, which derives most of its revenues from registration fees for domain names, generates substantially all of our revenue. if there is a disruption in the registry services business, including any disruption from changes in the domain name industry, changes in or challenges to our agreements with icann, including any changes resulting from legal challenges to these agreements, changes in our customers' or internet users' preferences, a downturn in the economy or changes in technology related to the use of domain names, there may be a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. in addition, a failure of the doc to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2018 could have a material adverse effect on our business. under the terms of the cooperative agreement, the company has the right to petition for potential relief from the . com registry agreement's pricing restrictions. however, there is uncertainty whether the doc will approve any exercise by the company of its right to increase the price per .com domain name registration under certain circumstances and whether the company will be able to successfully demonstrate to the doc that market conditions warrant removal of the pricing restrictions on .com domain name registrations, each of which could materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations. there is also uncertainty of future revenue and profitability and potential fluctuations in quarterly operating results due to the potential increase in expenses and costs coupled with such factors as restrictions on increasing prices due to market conditions, under the .com registry agreement and the cooperative agreement, or otherwise, or any other changes to pricing terms in these agreements upon renewal. 12 issues arising from our agreements with icann, the doc and the gsa could harm our registry services business. we are parties to agreements (i) with the doc with respect to certain aspects of the dns, (ii) with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com gtld and (iii) with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the .net and .name gtlds. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, including consensus policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and .name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; icann has adopted registry agreements for new gtlds that include the right for icann to amend the agreement without a registry operator's consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. icann might seek to impose this same unilateral right to amend other registry agreements with us under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on registry operators that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with providing new gtlds and icann might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our registry agreements under certain conditions; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or .name gtlds and the doc could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement on similar terms, or at all, and if any of the foregoing events occur, in the case of the .com and .net registry agreements, it would have a material adverse impact on our business; if we seek a price increase with respect to . com domain names during the term of the . com registry agreement or at the time of the renewal of the . com registry agreement, the doc could refuse to approve price increases with respect to .com domain names; the doc's or icann's interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; under certain circumstances, the gsa could terminate, or we could not seek to renew, our agreement to be the registry for the .gov gtld, which could have a material adverse impact on how the registry services business is perceived; and contracts within our registry services business have faced, and could continue to face, challenges, including possible legal challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, under the .com , . net and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition. however, icann has established a process whereby these registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in some instances. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, unless prohibited by icann as noted above, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to cctld operators. the impact of these changes to the distribution channel is uncertain but could have a material adverse effect on our business if operators of new or existing gtlds are able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration. if verisign were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements with respect to existing gtlds, or in the future with respect to new gtlds, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc approval would be obtained. challenges to internet administration or changes to our pricing terms could harm our registry services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing operation of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, or seek to change its role, potentially resulting in changes to internet governance that could pose a risk to our business, including instability in dns administration; icann is mandated by the affirmation of commitments (the aoc ) by the doc and icann to uphold a private sector led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. we believe recent actions by icann have signaled a willingness to abandon this model on certain important issues that impact our business and 13 the internet community. if icann fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, by expanding the role of governments in the governmental advisory committee for example, it could harm our business and our relationship with icann; some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. the aoc established several multi-party review panels and contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight and review of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to verisign; the aoc could be terminated or replaced with a different agreement between icann and some other authority which may establish other review panels or review procedures that may be unfavorable to verisign; and some governments are now questioning the ability of icann to be accountable with respect to internet governance and, as a result, may seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our registry services business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted, which may not also apply to our competitors. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2014, we had 124, or 12% of our employees outside the u.s. doing business in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting cctlds which we do not operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; currency fluctuations, as a small portion of our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars and some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies; high costs associated with repatriating profits to the u.s., which could impact us due to the large percentage of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities currently held by us outside the u.s. (see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources ); potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. 14 governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the u.s. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations in the u.s. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, online gambling (especially as we consider providing nia services and registry services to this sector), counterfeit goods, and cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and even though these contracts are immaterial, they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. we operate two root zone servers and are contracted to perform the root zone maintainer function. under icann's new gtld program, we face increased risk from these operations. we administer and operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. under the cooperative agreement with the national telecommunications and information administration ( ntia ) of the doc, we play a key operational role in support of the internet assigned numbers authority ( iana ) function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative data for the root zone itself multiple times daily and distribute it to all root server operators. under its new gtld program, icann intends to recommend for delegation into the root zone over 1,300 new gtlds potentially within a compressed timeframe. on october 23, 2013, ntia began to authorize, and verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gtlds. in view of our role as the root zone maintainer, and as a root operator, we face increased risks should icann's delegation of these new gtlds cause security and stability problems within the dns and/or for parties who rely on the dns. such risks include potential instability of the dns including potential fragmentation of the dns should icann's delegations create sufficient instability, and potential claims based on our role in the root zone provisioning and delegation process. these risks, alone or in the aggregate, have the potential to cause serious harm to our registry services business. further, our business could also be harmed through security, stability and resiliency degradation if the delegation of new gtlds into the root zone causes problems to certain components of the dns ecosystem or other aspects of the global dns, or other relying parties are negatively impacted as a result of domain name collisions, such as exposure or other leakage of private or sensitive information. additionally, dns security extensions ( dnssec ) enabled in the root zone and at other levels of the dns require new preventative maintenance functions and operational practices that did not exist prior to the introduction of dnssec. any failure by verisign or the iana functions operator to comply with stated practices, such as those outlined in relevant dnssec practice statements, introduces risk to dnssec relying parties and other internet users and consumers of the dns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. 15 on march 14, 2014, the national telecommunications and information administration announced its intent to transition key internet domain name functions potentially impacting our root zone maintainer function. on march 14, 2014, ntia announced its intent to transition its oversight of the iana function to the global multi-stakeholder community. ntia asked icann to convene global stakeholders to develop a proposal to transition the current role played by ntia in the coordination of the dns. it is uncertain whether the transition of oversight of the iana function will affect our role as root zone maintainer. although our root zone maintainer function is separate from our registry services business, and the ntia announcement does not affect verisign's operation of the . com, .net and . name registries, there can be no assurance that the transition will not negatively impact our business. changes in internet user behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet search engines were to change the value of their algorithms on the use of a domain for finding a website; (iii) internet users' preferences or practices continue to shift away from directly typing in web addresses; (iv) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on online advertising and/or the way that online networks compensate owners of websites could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo!, baidu and bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites, and pay-per-click advertising policies to provide less compensation for advertising on certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. changes in federal or state tax laws and regulations may discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. many internet merchants are not currently required to collect sales taxes in respect of shipments of goods into states where they lack physical presence. however, state tax laws and regulations may change in the future and one or more states may seek to impose sales tax collection obligations on out-of-state companies that engage in online commerce. several states have enacted affiliate nexus laws which require online retailers without a physical presence in the state to begin collecting sales taxes if a significant number of local sales are generated by brick and mortar affiliates operating in the state. in addition, it is possible that national legislation may be enacted requiring online retailers with greater than $1 million in sales in a state, but without any physical presence in the state, to begin collecting sales taxes for that state. legislation called the marketplace fairness act of 2013 (s. 743), which would have done this, passed the senate in 2013, but no action was taken by the house of representatives prior to the 2013-2014 congressional term. it is expected that a new version of the marketplace fairness act will be introduced in 2015, but it is unclear if this new version will have any greater chance of passage than s. 743 did in the prior congressional term. the enactment of any such state or federal laws may impair the growth of e-commerce and discourage the registration or renewal of domain names for e-commerce. reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes among registrars or their resellers as a result of consolidation or changes in ownership, management, or strategy could harm our registry services business. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. our registry services business, which generates substantially all of our revenue, derives most of its revenues from registrations and renewals of domain names, and decreased demand for and/or renewals of domain names could cause a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 16 undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control; risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our shared registration system residing in our secure data centers. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. in addition, if these service providers present inconsistent data regarding the dns, our business could be harmed. a failure in the operation of our tld name servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in a dns resolution or other service outage or in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services recommended by us in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. a failure in the operation or update of the root zone file or the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could also result in the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those tlds for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. in addition, a failure in our nia services could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business could suffer. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain customer and employee information in our secure data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat 17 ( apt ) attacks and zero-hour threats, which means that the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched, and may well target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target's operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. the shared registration system, the root zone servers, the root zone files, tld name servers and tld zone files that we operate are critical hardware and software to our registry services operations. we expend significant time and money on the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, outages resulting from destructive malcode, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of or jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. we are frequently subject to large-scale ddos attacks. our networks have been and likely will continue to be subject to ddos attacks of increasing size and sophistication. we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks but there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any successful attack, or partially successful attack, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our registry services customers and the broader internet community. further, we sell ddos protection services to nia services customers. although our contracts with these customers provide that we may prioritize all or part of these services at no liability to us in order to preserve our operational stability, the provision of such services might expose our critical dns services to temporary degradations or outages caused by very large-scale ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any directed specifically against us and our networks. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the verisign logo in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. 18 we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for third party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. a third party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits and investigations. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. see note 13, commitments and contingencies legal proceedings, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k for further information. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts, including in international markets. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, any changes by our distributors to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, if one or more of our distributors were to encounter financial difficulties, or if there were a significant reduction in marketing expenditures by our distributors (including registrars or their resellers), as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a decrease in domain name registrations and renewals. failure of one or more of our strategic, channel or other relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. 19 with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars, based upon their perception of market opportunity, may choose to focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms, and if we are unable to maintain their focus on our products and services or move through them to engage the same registrants, this could harm our business. new entrants may disrupt the registrar industry, which could have adverse effects on our business. this could include, but is not limited to, potential harm to the business models of existing registrars, impairing their ability to engage in promotional activities beneficial to the sale of domain name registrations in the tlds operated by us. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exploring a variety of possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the pursuit of new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings or initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; and our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name , including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. the success of our nia services depends in part on the acceptance of our services. we are investing in our nia services, and the future growth of these services depends, in part, on the commercial success, acceptance, and reliability of our nia services. we continually evaluate and evolve the terms and conditions upon which these services are sold. these services may not experience success or acceptance as a result of changes to the terms and conditions. also, these services will suffer if our target customers do not adopt or use these services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our nia services or continue to use these services even after adoption. we rely on third parties to provide products which are incorporated in our nia services. the nia services incorporate and rely on third party hardware and software products, many of which have unique capabilities. if we are unable to procure these third party products, the nia services may malfunction, not perform as well as they should perform, not perform as well as they have been performing or not perform as planned, and our business could suffer. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. our registry services and nia services businesses are developing services in emerging markets, including services that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. 20 we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees, and we have experienced changes in our management team during the last few years. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least thirty-five percent (35%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. a significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year was earned by our swiss subsidiaries. our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. as described further in note 12, income taxes, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of our 2014 form 10-k, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded, during the fourth quarter of 2013, an income tax benefit of $375.3 million, net of valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions recorded as required under u.s. gaap. this worthless stock deduction may be subject to audit and adjustment by the irs, which could result in the reversal of all, part or none of the income tax benefit, or could result in a benefit higher than the net amount recorded. if the irs rejects or reduces the amount of the income tax benefit related to the worthless stock deduction, we may have to pay additional cash income taxes, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we cannot guarantee what the ultimate outcome or amount of the benefit we receive, if any, will be. 21 various legislative proposals that would reform u.s. corporate tax laws have been proposed by the obama administration as well as members of congress, including proposals that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we are unable to predict whether these or other proposals will be implemented. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense or cash flow. our inability to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment: the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of the parent and subsidiaries for both the long and short term; the projected available distributable capital reserves under applicable foreign statutes, the tax consequences of a decision to reinvest; and any u.s. and foreign government programs designed to influence remittances. if these factors change and as a result we are unable to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings, the income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from the current period and could materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. deferred income taxes are not provided for any funds remaining in the foreign subsidiaries because these earnings are intended to be indefinitely reinvested. we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2014, we had $1.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $1.2 billion was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the u.s. debt ceiling crisis and the eurozone crisis, which affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. during the 2008 financial crisis, the volatility and disruption in the global credit market reached unprecedented levels. if the global credit market deteriorates again or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our financial results, results of operations and cash flows. we may be exposed to potential risks if we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting. as a public company, we are subject to the rules and regulations of the sec, including those that require us to report on and receive an attestation from our independent registered public accounting firm regarding our internal control over financial reporting. despite our efforts, if we were to fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, our financial condition could be harmed and current and potential future security holders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our stock price, and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. 22 we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies, and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems or addressing notices of violation; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in registry services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a web presence. in addition to the three gtlds we operate (. com , . net and . name ), and the 18 other operational gtlds delegated before october 23, 2013, there are over 250 latin script cctld registries and more than 40 idn cctld registries. under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling, marketing, methods of distribution, the introduction of new registry services and use of registrars that do not apply to cctlds and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. if other registries launch marketing campaigns for new or existing tlds, including forms of marketing campaigns that we are prohibited from running under the terms of our agreements with icann, which result in registrars or their resellers giving other tlds greater prominence on their websites, advertising or marketing materials, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and our business could suffer. in addition, on october 23, 2013, the doc began to authorize, and verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gtlds. icann is executing registry agreements with new gtld applicants, awarding over 1,300 new gtlds in an initial round under its new gtld program, and plans on offering a second round of new gtlds after the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. for additional information about the potential risks presented by these new gtlds, see we may face additional competition, operational and other risks from the introduction of new gtlds by icann, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are neustar, inc., afilias limited, ari registry services, donuts inc. and rightside inc. in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google, microsoft, and yahoo!, operators of social networks such as facebook, and operators of microblogging tools such as twitter. furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications. u.s. and most other countries' trademark laws do not permit the registration of tlds such as .com and .net as trademarks. accordingly, verisign's ability to prevent other registries from using the . com and . net brand in their marketing materials may be limited. 23 competition in nia services : several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully. in addition, it may be difficult to compete against consolidation and partnerships among our competitors which create integrated product suites. we face competition in the network intelligence and availability services industry from companies or services such as isight partners, ibm x-force, secunia aps, dell secureworks, mcafee, inc., akamai technologies inc. (including their acquisition of prolexic technologies, inc.), at&amp;t inc., verizon communications, inc., dyn, inc., neustar, inc., opendns, bluecat networks, inc., infoblox inc., nominum, inc. and afilias limited. we may face additional competition, operational and other risks from the introduction of new tlds by icann, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. additional competition to our business may arise from the introduction of new tlds by icann. on october 30, 2009, icann approved a fast track process for the awarding of new idn cctlds requested by country code managers, resulting in the ongoing delegation of new idn cctlds to the dns root zone. additionally, on june 13, 2012, icann announced it received 1,930 applications to operate over 1,400 unique new gtlds. icann has begun executing registry agreements with these new gtld applicants in connection with this initial round of gtld applications and intends to continue recommending over 1,300 new gtlds for delegation into the root zone. on october 23, 2013, the doc began to authorize, and verisign began effectuating, the delegation of the new gtlds. icann plans on offering a second round of new gtlds after the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. increased competition from these new tlds could have a material effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. as set forth in the verisign labs technical report #1130007 version 2.2: new gtld security and stability considerations released on march 28, 2013, and reiterated in our further publications since then, we continue to believe there are issues regarding the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our and others' efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. for example, there has been an increase in domain name collisions in 2014 which have resulted in network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing attacks. we do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new gtlds may have on our business, including if or how the introduction of these new gtlds will affect registrations for .com and .net and therefore have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. applicants for new gtlds include companies which may have greater financial, marketing and other resources than we do, including companies that are existing competitors, domain name registrars and new entrants into the domain name industry. in addition, under the .com , . net and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition. however, icann has established a process whereby these registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in some instances. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, unless prohibited by icann as noted above, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to other cctld operators if at all. if verisign were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements with respect to existing gtlds, or in the future with respect to new gtlds, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc approval would be obtained; without such changes, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. we applied for 14 new gtlds, including 12 idn gtlds, which are transliterations of . com or . net in various languages. we executed registry agreements to become the registry operator for 12 of these new gtlds, including 11 idns as well as . comsec . the remaining idn application was for a transliteration of . com in traditional chinese script, which was a variant of a string we applied for in another idn application ( . com in simplified chinese), and has been withdrawn at the request of icann, because icann had not yet developed a policy to address such variants. we may continue with this application, or a new one for the same string, once icann develops and implements a policy to address variant strings. the deadline to execute the registry agreement for our . verisign application is july 29, 2015. there is no certainty that we will enter into the registry agreement for . verisign or ultimately operate any of these new gtlds. 24 icann has stated that it will need to limit the maximum number of new gtlds that may be delegated in a year to 1,000, which could delay the activation of some approved new gtlds. even though idn gtlds have been given priority, other factors related to the application process could delay or disrupt an application and the timing of revenue generation, if any, from these gtlds. further, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be any more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the new gtlds including our new gtld strings, may face additional universal acceptability and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn gtlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. similarly, while we originally entered into agreements to provide back-end registry services to other applicants for approximately 220 new gtlds, and applicants for approximately 170 new gtlds currently continue to contract with us to provide back-end registry services, there is no guarantee that such applicants with which we have entered into agreements will be successful in obtaining one or more of these new gtlds or that such new gtlds will be successful due to some or all of the factors discussed above in connection with our new gtlds. we also cannot guarantee that we will ultimately provide back-end registry services for all of these new gtlds. icann's registry agreement for new gtlds requires the distribution of new gtlds only through registrars who have executed the 2013 raa. if registrars do not execute the 2013 raa, our ability to provide back-end registry services would be reduced, negatively impacting the sale of our back-end registry services for new gtlds. even if we are able to provide such services, the timing of revenue may also be dependent on how diligently our customers proceed to delegation and launch following the completion of the application process and our customers' respective launch plans for the new gtlds. in addition, we may face risks regarding icann requirements for mitigating name collisions in the new gtlds which we operate or for which we provide back-end registry services. our agreements to provide back-end registry services directly to other applicants and indirectly through reseller relationships expose us to operational and other risks. for example, the increase in the number of gtlds for which we provide registry services on a standalone basis or as a back-end service provider could further increase costs or increase the frequency or scope of targeted attacks from nefarious actors. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or anticipate or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to the sale of our authentication services business and the completion of our divestitures we face risks related to the terms of the sale of the authentication services business. under the agreement reached with symantec for the sale of our authentication services business (the symantec agreement ), we agreed to several terms that may pose risks to us, including the potential for confusion by the public with respect to symantec's right to use certain of our trademarks, brands and domain names, as well as the risk that current or potential investors in or customers of the company may incorrectly attribute to the company problems with symantec products or services that currently use the verisign brand pursuant to a license granted by the company to symantec. any such confusion may have a negative impact on our reputation, our brand and the market for our products and services. in addition, we may determine that certain assets transferred to symantec could have been useful in our naming services businesses or in other future endeavors, requiring us to forego future opportunities or design or purchase alternatives which could be costly and less effective than the transferred assets. under the terms of the symantec agreement, we have licensed rights to certain of our domain name registrations to symantec. we are at risk that our customers will go to a url for a licensed domain name and be unable to locate our registry or nia services. in addition, we will continue to maintain the registration rights for the domain names licensed to symantec for which symantec has sole control over the displayed content, and we may be subject to claims of infringement if symantec posts content that is alleged to infringe the rights of a third party. 25 we continue to be responsible for certain liabilities following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with the buyers of certain divested businesses, including the authentication services business, we remain liable for certain liabilities related to the divested businesses. there is a possibility that we will incur unanticipated costs and expenses associated with management of liabilities relating to the businesses we have divested, including requests for indemnification by the buyers of the divested businesses. these liabilities could potentially relate to (i) breaches of contractual representations and warranties we gave to the buyers of the divested businesses, or (ii) certain liabilities relating to the divested businesses that we retained under the agreements reached with the buyers of the divested businesses. such liabilities could include certain litigation matters, including actions brought by third parties. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be contractually allocated to the buyer or shared with the buyer or another party, it is possible that the buyer or the other party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of those obligations. risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2014, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 118.5 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 15.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the subordinated convertible debentures. as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the subordinated convertible debentures and our senior notes, we have a substantial amount of long-term debt outstanding. in addition to the subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes, we have an unsecured credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $200.0 million (the unsecured credit facility ) and the ability to request from time to time that the lenders thereunder agree on a discretionary basis to increase the aggregate commitments amount by up to $150.0 million. as of december 31, 2014, we had no borrowings under the unsecured credit facility. it is possible that we may need to incur additional indebtedness in the future in the ordinary course of business. the terms of our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes allow us to incur additional debt subject to certain limitations and will not prevent us from incurring obligations that do not constitute indebtedness under those agreements. if new debt is added to current debt levels, the risks and limitations related to our level of indebtedness could intensify. specifically, a high level of indebtedness could have adverse effects on our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities, including the following: making it more difficult for us to satisfy our debt obligations; limiting our ability to obtain additional financing to fund future working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or other general corporate requirements, or requiring us to make non-strategic divestitures, particularly when the availability of financing in the capital markets is limited; requiring a substantial portion of our cash flows to be dedicated to debt service payments instead of other purposes, thereby reducing the amount of cash flows available for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions and other general corporate purposes; having to repatriate cash held by foreign subsidiaries which would require us to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; limiting our flexibility in planning for and reacting to changes in our businesses and the markets in which we compete; placing us at a possible competitive disadvantage compared to other, less leveraged competitors and competitors that may have better access to capital resources; and increasing our cost of borrowing. in addition, the indenture that governs the senior notes and the credit agreement that governs our unsecured credit facility contain restrictive covenants that will limit our ability to engage in activities that may be in our long-term best interest. our failure to comply with those covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of our debt. 26 we may not be able to generate sufficient cash to service all of our indebtedness and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make scheduled payments on or refinance our debt obligations depends on our financial condition and operating performance, which are subject to prevailing economic and competitive conditions and to certain financial, business, legislative, regulatory and other factors beyond our control. moreover, in the event funds from foreign operations are needed to repay our debt obligations and u.s. tax has not already been provided, we would be required to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes in order to repatriate these funds. we may be unable to maintain a level of cash flows from operating activities sufficient to permit us to pay the principal, premium, if any, and interest on our indebtedness. if our cash flows and capital resources are insufficient to fund our debt service obligations, we could face substantial liquidity problems and could be forced to reduce or delay investments and capital expenditures or to dispose of material assets or operations, seek additional debt or equity capital or restructure or refinance our indebtedness. we may not be able to effect any such alternative measures, if necessary, on commercially reasonable terms or at all and, even if successful, those alternative actions may not allow us to meet our scheduled debt service obligations. our unsecured credit facility restricts our ability to dispose of assets and use the proceeds from those dispositions and may also restrict our ability to raise debt or equity capital to be used to repay other indebtedness when it becomes due. we may not be able to consummate those dispositions or to obtain proceeds in an amount sufficient to meet any debt service obligations then due. in addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are not guarantors of the senior notes or our other indebtedness. repayment of our indebtedness is substantially dependent on the generation of cash flow by verisign, inc. our non-guarantor subsidiaries do not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our indebtedness or to make funds available for that purpose. future guarantor subsidiaries, if any, may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, on commercially reasonable terms, or at all, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. such subsidiaries are distinct legal entities, and, under certain circumstances, legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. while our unsecured credit facility limits the ability of our subsidiaries to incur consensual restrictions on their ability to pay dividends or make other intercompany payments to us, these limitations are subject to qualifications and exceptions. if we cannot service our debt obligations with our cash flows and domestic cash on hand, we may be required to repatriate cash from our foreign subsidiaries, which would be subject to u.s. federal income tax, or may otherwise be unable to make required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our inability to generate sufficient cash flows to satisfy our debt obligations or to refinance our indebtedness on commercially reasonable terms or at all, would materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations and our ability to satisfy our debt obligations. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default and holders of the senior notes could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our unsecured credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money, certain holders of our subordinated convertible debentures could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. the terms of our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes restrict our current and future operations, particularly our ability to respond to changes or to take certain actions and create the risk of default on such indebtedness. the credit agreement that governs our unsecured credit facility and the indenture governing the senior notes contain a number of restrictive covenants that impose significant operating and financial restrictions on us and may limit our ability to engage in acts that may be in our long-term best interest, including, subject to certain exceptions, restrictions on our ability to: permit our subsidiaries to incur or guarantee indebtedness; pay dividends or other distributions or repurchase or redeem our capital stock; prepay, redeem or repurchase certain debt; issue certain preferred stock or similar equity securities; make loans and investments; sell assets; incur liens; enter into transactions with affiliates; alter the businesses we conduct; enter into agreements restricting our subsidiaries' ability to pay dividends; consolidate, merge or sell all or substantially all of our assets; and engage in certain sale/leaseback transactions. 27 in addition, the restrictive covenants in our unsecured credit facility require us to maintain specified financial ratios and satisfy other financial condition tests. our ability to meet those financial ratios and tests can be affected by events beyond our control, and we may be unable to meet them. a breach of the covenants or restrictions under our unsecured credit facility or the indenture governing the senior notes could result in an event of default under the applicable indebtedness. such a default may allow the creditors to accelerate the related debt and may result in the acceleration of any other debt to which a cross-acceleration or cross-default provision applies. in addition, an event of default under our unsecured credit facility would permit the lenders under our unsecured credit facility to terminate all commitments to extend further credit under that agreement. in the event our lenders or noteholders accelerate the repayment of our borrowings, we and our subsidiaries may not have sufficient assets to repay that indebtedness. as a result of these restrictions, we may be: limited in how we conduct our business; unable to raise additional debt or equity financing to operate during general economic or business downturns; or unable to compete effectively or to take advantage of new business opportunities. these restrictions may affect our ability to grow in accordance with our strategy. in addition, our financial results, our substantial indebtedness and our credit ratings could adversely affect the availability and terms of our financing. some of the cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that appear on our consolidated balance sheet may not be available for use in our business or to meet our debt obligations without adverse income tax consequences. as of december 31, 2014, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held by our foreign subsidiaries that are not guarantors of the senior notes or our other indebtedness, was $939.0 million. during the second quarter of 2014, we completed the repatriation of approximately $740.9 million, net of withholding taxes, of cash held by foreign subsidiaries. for any funds remaining in the foreign subsidiaries after the repatriation that have not been previously taxed in the u.s., our intent is to indefinitely reinvest those funds outside of the u.s. in the event that funds from our foreign operations are needed to fund operations in the united states or to meet our debt obligations, and if u.s. tax has not already been provided, we would be required to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes in order to repatriate those funds. in light of the foregoing, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that appear on our balance sheet may overstate the amount of liquidity we have available to meet our business or debt obligations, including obligations under the senior notes. we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control. upon the occurrence of specific kinds of change of control events and if the senior notes are rated below investment grade by both rating agencies that rate the senior notes, we will be required to offer to repurchase all outstanding senior notes at 101% of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest, if any, to the repurchase date. additionally, under our unsecured credit facility, a change of control (as defined therein) constitutes an event of default that permits the lenders to accelerate the maturity of borrowings under the unsecured credit facility and the commitments to lend would terminate. the source of funds for any repurchase of the senior notes and repayment of borrowings under our unsecured credit facility would be our available cash or cash generated from our subsidiaries' operations or other sources, including borrowings, sales of assets or sales of equity. we may not be able to repurchase the senior notes upon a change of control because we may not have sufficient financial resources to purchase all of the debt securities that are tendered upon a change of control and repay our other indebtedness that will become due. if we fail to repurchase the senior notes in that circumstance, we will be in default under the indenture that governs the senior notes. we may require additional financing from third parties to fund any such repurchases, and we may be unable to obtain financing on satisfactory terms or at all. further, our ability to repurchase the senior notes may be limited by law. in order to avoid the obligation to repurchase the senior notes and events of default and potential breaches of our unsecured credit facility, we may have to avoid certain change of control transactions that would otherwise be beneficial to us. in addition, certain important corporate events, such as leveraged recapitalizations, may not, under the indenture that governs the senior notes, constitute a change of control that would require us to repurchase the senior notes, even though those corporate events could increase the level of our indebtedness or otherwise adversely affect our capital structure, credit ratings or the value of the senior notes. additionally, holders may not be able to require us to purchase their senior notes in certain circumstances involving a significant change in the composition of our board of directors, including a proxy contest where our board of directors approves for purposes of the change of control provisions of the indenture, but does not endorse, a dissident slate of directors. in this regard, decisions of the delaware chancery court (not involving us or our securities) considered a change of control redemption provision contained in an indenture governing publicly traded debt securities that was substantially similar to the change of control redemption provision in the indenture that governs the senior notes with respect to continuing directors. in these cases, the court noted that the board of directors may approve a dissident shareholder's nominees solely to avoid triggering the change of control redemption provision of the indenture without 28 supporting their election if the board determines in good faith that the election of the dissident nominees would not be materially adverse to the interests of the corporation or its stockholders (without taking into consideration the interests of the holders of debt securities in making this determination). further, according to these decisions, the directors' duty of loyalty to shareholders under delaware law may, in certain circumstances, require them to give such approval. furthermore, the exercise by the holders of senior notes of their right to require us to repurchase the senior notes pursuant to a change of control offer could cause a default under the agreements governing our other indebtedness, including future agreements, even if the change of control itself does not, due to the financial effect of such repurchases on us. in the event a change of control offer is required to be made at a time when we are prohibited from purchasing senior notes, we could attempt to refinance the borrowings that contain such prohibitions. if we do not obtain a consent or repay those borrowings, we will remain prohibited from purchasing senior notes. in that case, our failure to purchase tendered senior notes would constitute an event of default under the indenture which could, in turn, constitute a default under our other indebtedness. finally, our ability to pay cash to the holders of senior notes upon a repurchase pursuant to a change of control offer may be limited by our then existing financial resources. a lowering or withdrawal of the ratings assigned to our debt securities by rating agencies may increase our future borrowing costs and reduce our access to capital. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency if, in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating, such as adverse changes, so warrant. consequently, real or anticipated changes in our credit ratings will generally affect the market value of our debt securities. any lowering of our rating likely would make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. we may not have the ability to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures; occurrence of certain events related to our subordinated convertible debentures might have significant adverse accounting, disclosure, tax, and liquidity implications. as a result of the sale of the subordinated convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of debt outstanding. holders of our outstanding subordinated convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture governing the subordinated convertible debentures dated as of august 20, 2007 between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee (the 2007 indenture ). although, in certain situations, the 2007 indenture requires us to pay this repurchase price in cash, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. the subordinated convertible debentures continue to be convertible due to our stock price exceeding the conversion price threshold trigger, and, if holders elect to convert their subordinated convertible debentures, we are permitted under the 2007 indenture to pursue an exchange in lieu of conversion or to settle the settlement amount (as defined in the 2007 indenture) in cash, stock, or a combination thereof. if we choose not to pursue or cannot complete an exchange in lieu of a conversion, we currently have the intent and the ability (based on current facts and circumstances) to settle the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in cash. however, if the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures due to holders as a result of rights to convert or require repurchase exceeds our cash on hand and cash from operations, we will need to draw cash from existing financing or pursue additional sources of financing to settle the subordinated convertible debentures in cash. we cannot provide any assurances that we will be able to obtain new sources of financing on terms acceptable to us or at all, nor can we assure that we will be able to obtain such financing in time to settle the subordinated convertible debentures that holders elect to convert or require the company to repurchase. if we do not have adequate cash available, either from cash on hand, funds generated from operations or existing financing arrangements, or cannot obtain additional financing arrangements, we will not be able to settle the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in cash and, in the case of settlement of conversion elections, will be required to settle the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in stock. if we settle any portion of the principal amount of the subordinated convertible debentures in stock, it will result in immediate dilution to the interests of existing security holders and the dilution could be material to such security holders. if our intent to settle the principal amount in cash changes, or if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. earnings per share will most likely be lower under the if-converted method as compared to the treasury stock method. 29 if the amount paid (in cash or stock) to settle the subordinated convertible debentures (i.e., the settlement amount) is less than the adjusted issue price, under the internal revenue code and the regulations thereunder, the difference is included in taxable income as recapture of previous interest deductions. the adjusted issue price grows over the term of the subordinated convertible debentures due to the difference between the interest deduction for tax, using a comparable yield rate of 8.5%, and the coupon rate of 3.25%, compounded annually. the settlement amount will vary based on the stock price at settlement date. depending on the settlement amount for the subordinated convertible debentures at the settlement date, the amount included in taxable income as a result of this recapture could be substantial, which could adversely impact our cash flow. a fundamental change may constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the subordinated convertible debentures when required would result in an event of default with respect to the subordinated convertible debentures. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity our marketable securities consist of fixed income securities which are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2014, we had $1.2 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2014, we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $29.7 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the subordinated convertible debentures are subject to market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures, the fair market value will increase as the market price of our common stock increases, and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes but do not impact our financial condition, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2014, the fair value of the subordinated convertible debentures was approximately $2.2 billion and the fair value of the senior notes was $727.6 million , based on available market information from public data sources. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on subordinated convertible debentures is also subject to market risk and, to a lesser extent, to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will increase or decrease with the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures. 48risk factors 10 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks arising from our agreements governing our registry services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. we are parties to (i) a cooperative agreement (as amended) with the doc with respect to the . com gtld and certain other aspects of the dns and (ii) registry agreements with icann for .com , .net, .name and other gtlds including our idn gtlds. as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our registry services business, limitations in these agreements could have a material impact on our business. pricing . under the terms of the cooperative agreement with the doc and the .com registry agreement with icann, we are generally restricted from increasing the price of registrations or renewals of . com domain names except that we are entitled to increase the price up to seven percent, with the prior approval of the doc, due to the imposition of any new consensus policies or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the dns. however, it is uncertain that such circumstances will arise, or if they do, that the doc will approve our request to increase the price for .com domain name registrations. we also have the right under the cooperative agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. however, it is uncertain that such circumstances will arise, or if they do, that the doc will agree to the removal of these pricing restrictions. in connection with a renewal of the . com registry agreement, we can seek an increase of the price for . com domain name registrations. regardless of whether we seek such an increase, there can be no assurance of the price that doc will approve in connection with a renewal of the . com registry agreement. under the terms of the .net and .name registry agreements with icann, we are permitted to increase the price of registrations and renewals in these tlds up to ten percent per year. additionally, icann's registry agreements for other new gtlds do not contain such pricing restrictions. vertical integration . under the .com , . net and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition; however, icann has established a process whereby registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in some instances. if we were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements, it is uncertain whether icann and/or doc approval would be obtained. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, unless prohibited by icann as noted above, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to cctld registry operators. if registry operators of new or existing gtlds, or cctlds, are able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration, it could materially harm our business. termination or non-renewal . under the cooperative agreement (as amended) the doc must approve any renewal or extension of the .com registry agreement. the doc, under certain circumstances, could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement on similar terms, or at all. any failure of the doc to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2018 would have a material adverse effect on our business. under certain circumstances, icann could terminate or refuse to renew one or more of our registry agreements including for .com, .net, and our other gtlds. see the industry regulation section in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for further information on these circumstances. modification or amendment . our registry agreements for new gtlds, including the registry agreements for our idn gtlds, include icann's right to amend the agreement without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. at the time of renewal of our .com or .net registry agreements, icann might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these registry agreements under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on new gtld registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gtlds. icann might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other registry agreements under certain conditions. legal challenges . our registry agreements have faced, and could continue to face, challenges, including possible legal challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. 10 consensus policies . our registry agreements with icann require us to implement consensus policies. icann could adopt consensus policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com , .net and our other gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, or that affect our competitive position. such consensus policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the u.s. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations in the u.s. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. for example, the government of the people's republic of china ( prc ) has indicated that it will issue new regulations, and begin to enforce existing regulations, that will require registry operators to, among other things, obtain a government-issued license in order to provide registry services to registrars located in the prc. the new regulations could impose additional costs on our provision of registry services in the prc and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in the prc. while we have submitted applications to the government of the prc to obtain the licenses required by the regulations, there can be no assurance that we will obtain the licenses or obtain the licenses in a timely manner. our failure to obtain the licenses could result in restrictions, up to and including, a prohibition on the sale of our registry services to registrars located in the prc. in addition to registry operators, the regulations will require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each tld whose domain names they intend to sell directly to registrants. their failure to obtain the required licenses could also impact the growth of our business in the prc. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, online gambling (to the extent we provide services to this sector), counterfeit goods, and cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. in addition, as we began to launch our idn gtlds in late 2015, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. undetected or unknown defects in our service, security breaches, and large-scale ddos attacks could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. in addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. we retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat ( apt ) attacks and zero-hour threats, which means that the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched, and may well target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target's operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. the 11 shared registration system, the root zone servers, the root zone files, tld name servers and tld zone files that we operate are critical hardware and software to our registry services operations. despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, outages resulting from destructive malcode, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of or jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. additionally, our networks have been and likely will continue to be subject to ddos attacks. while we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our our contracted service level obligations, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our registry services customers and the broader internet community. further, we sell ddos protection services to security services customers. although we increase our knowledge of and develop new techniques in the identification and mitigation of attacks through the protection of our security services customers, the ddos protection services share some of the infrastructure used in our registry services business. therefore the provision of such services might expose our critical registry services infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by very large-scale ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any directed specifically against us and our networks. changes to the present multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. the internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as icann, governments including the u.s. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. changes to the present multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. role of icann . icann plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. icann is mandated by the non-binding aoc between the doc and icann to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. if icann fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business and our relationship with icann. additionally, the aoc could be terminated or replaced with a different agreement between icann and some other authority which may establish new or different procedures for internet governance that may be unfavorable to us. also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of icann. role of foreign governments . some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned icann's role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. additionally, the role of icann's governmental advisory committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, giving governments more control of internet governance. for example, the aoc established several multi-party review panels and contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight and review of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to us. some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. role of the u.s. government . the u.s. government through the ntia coordinates the management of important aspects of the dns including the iana functions and the root zone. on march 14, 2014, ntia announced its intent to transition its oversight of the iana function to the global multi-stakeholder community. ntia asked icann to convene global stakeholders to develop a proposal to transition the current role played by ntia in the coordination of the dns. the ntia is also coordinating a related and parallel transition of related root zone management functions. these related root zone management functions involve our role as root zone maintainer under the cooperative agreement. at ntia's request, we submitted a proposal with icann to ntia as how best to remove ntia's administrative role associated with root zone management in a manner that maintains the security, stability and resiliency of the internet's domain name system. we have performed the root zone maintainer functions as a community service spanning three decades without compensation at the request of the doc under the cooperative agreement. while it is uncertain how the transition of oversight of the iana functions and related root 12 zone management functions will affect our role as root zone maintainer, it is anticipated that performance of the root zone management function would be conducted by us under a new root zone management agreement with icann once the root zone management function obligations under the cooperative agreement are completed. although our root zone maintainer function is separate from our registry agreements, there can be no assurance that the transition of the iana functions, the transition of the related root zone management functions, and associated transition processes will not negatively impact our business. as a result of these and other risks, internet governance may change in ways that could materially harm our registry services business. for example, after the transition, if we perform the root zone management function under a new agreement, we may be subject to claims challenging the agreement and we may not have immunity from or sufficient indemnification for such claims. if another party is designated to perform the root zone maintainer function, there could be new or increased risks in publishing the root zone file, which is critical to the operation of the dns and our operation of our tlds including .com . additionally, it may become more difficult for us to introduce new services in our registry services business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how our business is conducted, or to fees or taxes applicable to this business, which may not be equally applicable to our competitors. we operate two root zone servers and are contracted to perform the root zone maintainer function. under icann's new gtld program, we face increased risk from these operations. we administer and operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. under the cooperative agreement, we play a key operational role in support of the iana function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative data for the root zone itself multiple times daily and distribute it to all root server operators. under its new gtld program, icann has recommended delegations into the root zone of a large number of new gtlds. in view of our role as the root zone maintainer, and as a root server operator, we face increased risks should icann's delegation of these new gtlds, which represent unprecedented changes to the root zone in volume and frequency, cause security and stability problems within the dns and/or for parties who rely on the dns. such risks include potential instability of the dns including potential fragmentation of the dns should icann's delegations create sufficient instability, and potential claims based on our role in the root zone provisioning and delegation process. these risks, alone or in the aggregate, have the potential to cause serious harm to our registry services business. further, our business could also be harmed through security, stability and resiliency degradation if the delegation of new gtlds into the root zone causes problems to certain components of the dns ecosystem or other aspects of the global dns, or other relying parties are negatively impacted as a result of domain name collisions or other new gtld security issues, such as exposure or other leakage of private or sensitive information. additionally, dnssec enabled in the root zone and at other levels of the dns require new preventative maintenance functions and operational practices that did not exist prior to the introduction of dnssec. any failure by verisign or the iana functions operator to comply with stated practices, such as those outlined in relevant dnssec practice statements, introduces risk to dnssec relying parties and other internet users and consumers of the dns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. the evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names. domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers to access or disseminate information, conduct ecommerce, and develop an online identity for many years. the introduction of new technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. these changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for both commercial and investment reasons. factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct ecommerce, and develop an online identity. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser, the use of an app on their smart phone or mobile device, the use of a voice recognition technology such as siri, cortana, or echo, or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet users' preferences or practices continue to shift away from directly typing in web addresses through use of new and existing technologies; (iii) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of 13 applications to locate and access content; or (iv) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names could decrease. this may trigger current customers and parties in our target markets to reevaluate their need for registration or renewal of domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo!, baidu and bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites and provide less pay-per-click compensation for certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. if any of the above factors negatively impact the renewal of domain names or the demand for new domain names, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. we target many new, developing and emerging markets to grow our business. these markets are rapidly evolving, and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance or adoption of our services in these markets include the following: regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption; market acceptance and adoption of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use, which are substitutes for our products and services; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices; increasing cyber threats and the associated customer need and demand for our security services offerings; government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet; preference by markets for the use of their own country's cctlds as a substitute or alternative to our tlds; and increased acceptance and use of new gtlds as substitutes for legacy gtlds. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. we may face operational and other risks from the introduction of new gtlds by icann and our provision of back-end registry services. more than 840 new gtlds have already been delegated in this initial round of new gtlds. icann plans on offering a second round of new gtlds after the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. as set forth in the verisign labs technical report #1130007 version 2.2: new gtld security and stability considerations released on march 28, 2013, and reiterated in our further publications since then, we continue to believe there are issues regarding the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our and others' efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. for example, domain name collisions have been reported to icann, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing attacks. it is anticipated that as additional new gtlds are delegated more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur. we have entered into agreements to provide back-end registry services to other applicants for new gtlds. we may face risks regarding icann requirements for mitigating name collisions in the new gtlds which we operate or for which we provide back-end registry services. for example, the possibility exists that controlled interruption periods may disrupt network services or that privacy or secure communications may be impacted as a result of insufficient preparedness by icann and the community for the launch of new gtlds. our agreements to provide back-end registry services directly to other applicants and indirectly through reseller relationships expose us to operational and other risks. for example, the increase in the number of gtlds for which we provide 14 registry services on a standalone basis or as a back-end service provider could further increase costs or increase the frequency or scope of targeted attacks from nefarious actors. the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services such as new gtlds in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a web presence. we have applied for new gtlds including certain idn gtlds; however, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be any more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the new gtlds, including our new gtlds, may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn gtlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. as a result of these challenges, it is possible that resolution of names within some of these new gtlds may be blocked within certain state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability on the internet. see the competition section in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for further information. we must establish and maintain strong relationships with registrars and their resellers to maintain their focus on marketing our products and services otherwise our registry service business could be harmed. one registrar accounts for more than 30% of our revenues. all of our domain name registrations occur through registrars and their resellers. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. our registrars and resellers not only sell domain name registrations of other competing registries but also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, as well as other services. to the extent that registrars and their resellers focus more on selling support services and less on the registration and renewal of our tlds, our revenues could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. if we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling our tlds as opposed to other competing tlds or their own services, our business could be harmed. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control; 15 risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our shared registration system residing in our secure data centers. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. in addition, if these service providers do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the dns through their networks, our business could be harmed. a failure in the operation of our tld name servers, the domain name root zone servers, the root zone management system, or other events could result in a dns resolution or other service outage or in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. a failure in the operation or update of the root zone file or the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could also result in the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those tlds for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability, including liability arising from a failure to meet our service level agreements in our registry agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment, including hostilities and conflicts in various regions both inside and outside the u.s., natural disasters, currency fluctuations, and country specific operating regulations may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations. the economic, social and political environment has impacted or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity and our associated ability to execute on any share repurchase plans; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; and our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may have a disproportionate negative impact on our business. our international operations subject our business to additional economic and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the u.s. doing business in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or 16 we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could materially harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting cctlds, which we do not operate; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; currency fluctuations; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information, including complying with the customer verification requirements of certain countries; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. we rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and related intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the verisign logo in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. in addition, u.s. and most other countries' trademark laws currently do not permit the registration of tlds such as .com and .net as trademarks. accordingly, we may not be able to fully realize or maintain the value of these intellectual property assets. 17 we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for third party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. a third party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits and investigations, including with respect to the root zone maintainer agreement now under negotiation with icann. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we are exploring a variety of possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the investment in and the pursuit of new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings, including the acquisition and/or launch of new gtlds, initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio, our security services business, back-end registry services and idn gtlds. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible regulatory scrutiny or third-party claims; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative; as well as damage to our reputation if we are unsuccessful in pursuing a strategic initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net, .name and other registries, including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. 18 we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we operate in a unique competitive and highly regulated environment and we depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our senior management team and other key employees in this regard and otherwise. we have experienced changes in our management team during the last few years. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these key individuals and additional highly skilled technical, sales and marketing, and other experienced employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. for example, our service products are highly technical and require individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique platforms and software implementation. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. a significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year was earned in low tax jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. as described further in note 11, income taxes, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in part iv, item 15 of this annual report on form 10-k, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded, during the fourth quarter of 2013, an income tax benefit of $375.3 million, net of valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions recorded as required under u.s. gaap. this worthless stock deduction may be subject to audit and adjustment by the internal revenue service ( irs ), which could result in the reversal of all, part or none of the income tax benefit. if the irs rejects or reduces the amount of the income tax benefit related to the worthless stock deduction, we may have to pay additional cash income taxes, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. we cannot guarantee what the ultimate outcome or amount of the benefit we receive, if any, will be. various legislative proposals that would reform u.s. corporate tax laws have been proposed by the obama administration as well as members of congress, including proposals that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we are unable to predict whether these or other proposals will be implemented. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense or cash flow. our foreign earnings, which are indefinitely reinvested offshore, constitute a majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and there is a high cost associated with a change in our indefinite reinvestment assertion or a repatriation of those funds to the u.s. a majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are held by our foreign subsidiaries. our foreign earnings are indefinitely reinvested offshore and are not available to be used in the u.s. for working capital needs, debt obligations, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends or other general corporate purposes. in the event that funds from our foreign operations are needed in the u.s. for any purpose, we would be required to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes in order to repatriate those funds, which could be significant. further, if we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings our effective tax rate would increase. these could adversely impact our business valuation and stock price. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2015, we had $1.9 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $1.7 billion was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. 19 these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the u.s. debt ceiling crisis and the eurozone crisis, which affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. during the 2008 financial crisis, the volatility and disruption in the global credit market reached unprecedented levels. if the global credit market deteriorates again or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least thirty-five percent (35%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2015, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 110.1 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 13.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 ( subordinated convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 20 our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of outstanding debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness, including any future indebtedness, requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations or to arrange alternative liquidity sources to make principal and interest payments, when due, or to repurchase or settle our debt, if triggered, by certain corporate events, certain events of default, or conversion. it could also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, or make required capital expenditures and investments in our business; make it difficult or more expensive to refinance our debt or obtain new debt; trigger an event of default; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. some of our debt contains covenants which may limit our operating flexibility, including restrictions on share repurchases, dividends, prepayment or repurchase of debt, acquisitions, disposing of assets, if we do not continue to meet certain financial ratios. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency, which could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. the settlement amount, contingent interest, and potential recapture of income tax deductions related to our subordinated convertible debentures can be substantial, and can increase significantly based on changes in our stock price. the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 37 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity our marketable securities consist primarily of fixed income securities which are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2015 , we had $1.7 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2015 , we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $32.5 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the subordinated convertible debentures are subject to market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. the fair market value will increase as the market price of our common stock increases, and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes. as of december 31, 2015 , the fair value of the subordinated convertible debentures was approximately $3.2 billion and the fair values of the senior notes issued in 2013 and the senior notes issued in 2015 were $742.0 million and $503.8 million , respectively, based on available market information from public data sources. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on subordinated convertible debentures is also subject to market risk and, to a lesser extent, to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will increase or decrease with the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures. 37risk factors 10 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks arising from our agreements governing our registry services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. we are parties to (i) a cooperative agreement (as amended) with the doc with respect to the . com gtld and (ii) registry agreements with icann for .com , .net, .name, and other gtlds including our idn gtlds. as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our registry services business, limitations and obligations in, or changes or challenges to, these agreements, particularly the agreements that involve . com and . net , could have a material adverse impact on our business. certain competing registries, such as the cctlds, do not face the same limitations or obligations that we face in our agreements. modifications or amendments. in october 2016, the company and icann entered into an amendment to extend the term of the .com registry agreement to november 30, 2024 (the .com amendment ). as part of the .com amendment, the company and icann agreed to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the .com registry agreement: (i) by october 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the .com tld, and (ii) as a result of any changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the cooperative agreement. in a related risk, if we have a failure in our operation of the .gov registry, such a failure could call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet and result in damage to our reputation. we can provide no assurance that any new terms for the .com registry agreement that we agree to as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the doc approved the . com amendment under amendment 34 to the cooperative agreement. the doc did not extend the term of the cooperative agreement, which will expire on november 30, 2018, unless the doc, in its sole discretion, extends the term. under amendment 34, the doc has the right to conduct a public interest review for the sole purpose of determining whether the doc will exercise its right to extend the term of the cooperative agreement. in connection with the aforementioned review, we agreed to cooperate fully and to work in good faith to reach a mutual agreement with the doc to resolve issues identified in such review and to implement any agreed upon changes as of the expiration of the current term of the cooperative agreement. we can provide no assurance that any changes that we agree to as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, our registry agreements for new gtlds, including the registry agreements for our idn gtlds, include icann's right to amend the agreements without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. at the time of renewal of our .com or .net registry agreements, icann might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these registry agreements under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on new gtld registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gtlds. icann might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other registry agreements under certain conditions. we can provide no assurance that any changes to our registry agreements as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. pricing . under the terms of the cooperative agreement with the doc and the .com registry agreement with icann, we are restricted during the term of the registry agreement from increasing the price of registrations or renewals of . com domain names above $7.85, except that we are entitled to increase the price up to 7%, with the prior approval of the doc, due to the imposition of any new consensus policies, as established and defined under icann's bylaws, or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the dns. however, it is uncertain that such circumstances will arise, or if they do, whether we would seek, or the doc would approve, any request to increase the price for .com domain name registrations. we also have the right under the cooperative agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. however, it is uncertain when such circumstances will arise, or when they do, whether the doc will agree to the removal of these pricing restrictions. in comparison, under the terms of the .net and .name registry agreements with icann, we are permitted to increase the price of domain name registrations and renewals in these tlds up to 10% per year. additionally, icann's registry agreements for the new gtlds do not contain such pricing restrictions. vertical integration . under the .com , . net, and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership 10 interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition; however, icann has established a process whereby registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in some instances. if we were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements, it is uncertain whether icann and/or doc approval would be obtained. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to cctld registry operators. if registry operators of new or existing gtlds, or cctlds, are able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration, it could materially harm our business. renewal and termination . our . com , . net, and . name registry agreements with icann contain presumptive rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on november 30, 2024, july 1, 2017 and august 15, 2018 respectively. the registry agreements for our new gtlds including our idn gtlds are subject to a 10-year term and contain similar presumptive renewal rights. if certain terms in our .com and .net registry agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gtlds, then a renewal of these agreements shall be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms similar to the registry agreements for those other gtlds. there can be no assurance that such terms, if they apply, will not have a material adverse impact on our business. a renewal of the . com registry agreement must be approved by the doc, which, under certain circumstances, could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement on similar terms, or at all. a failure (i) by icann or the doc to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2024, or (ii) by icann to approve the renewal of . net registry agreement prior to or upon the expiration of its current term on july 1, 2017, would have, absent an extension, a material adverse effect on our business. icann could terminate or refuse to renew our . com or . net registry agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. icann's termination or refusal to renew either the . com or . net registry agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. consensus policies . our registry agreements with icann require us to implement consensus policies and specifications or policies established on a temporary basis ( temporary policies ). icann could adopt consensus policies or temporary policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com , .net and our other gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the company to additional legal risks or that affect our competitive position. such consensus policies or temporary policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. legal challenges . our registry agreements have faced, and could continue to face, challenges, including possible legal challenges, resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the u.s. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations in the u.s. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. for example, the government of the people's republic of china ( prc ) has indicated that it will issue new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that could impose additional costs on our provision of registry services in the prc and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in the prc. in addition to registry operators, the regulations will require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each tld whose domain name registrations they intend to sell directly to registrants. their failure to obtain the required licenses could also impact the growth of our business in the prc. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, online gambling, counterfeit goods, and cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. in addition, as we launch our idn gtlds and increase our marketing 11 efforts of our other gtlds in foreign countries, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. undetected or unknown defects in our service, security breaches, and ddos attacks could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, including dns data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. in addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. we retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. these forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. in addition, these forms of attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target's operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. in addition to external threats, we may be subject to insider threats from current, former or contract employees; these threats can be realized from intentional or unintentional actions of such employees. the shared registration system, the root zone servers, the root zone management system, the tld name servers and the tld zone files that we operate are critical to our registry services operations. despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, outages resulting from destructive malcode, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of or jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. we use externally developed technology, systems and services including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication, employee email, back-office support, and other functions. while we have developed operational policies and procedures to reduce the impact of a security breach at a vendor where company data is stored or processed, such measures cannot provide absolute security. breaches of our vendors' technology, systems and services could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of company data, including but not limited to personal information. additionally, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to ddos attacks. recent attacks against others have demonstrated that ddos attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have an ability to widely disrupt internet services. while we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our registry services customers and the broader internet community. further, we sell ddos protection services to our security services customers. although we increase our knowledge of and develop new techniques in the identification and mitigation of attacks through the protection of our security services customers, the ddos protection services share some of the infrastructure used in our registry services business. therefore the provision of such services might expose our critical 12 registry services infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any directed specifically against us and our networks. changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. the internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as icann, governments including the u.s. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. role of the u.s. government . in the fourth quarter of 2016, the united states government completed a transition of the historical role played by ntia in the coordination of the dns. changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. for example, icann has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance accountability through a new organization called the empowered community, which is comprised of a cross section of industry participants. icann or the empowered community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business. furthermore, as part of the transition, the ntia discharged us from our obligations under the cooperative agreement to perform root zone maintainer functions and we entered into a new agreement with icann, the root zone maintainer service agreement ( rzma ) under which we now perform the root zone maintainer functions on behalf of icann. as we perform the root zone maintainer function under the rzma, we may be subject to claims challenging the agreement or our performance under the agreement, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification for, such claims. by completing the transition discussed above, the u.s. government through the ntia has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the dns including the iana functions and the root zone. there can be no assurance that the removal of the u.s. government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business. role of icann . icann plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. icann is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. if icann or the empowered community fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. additionally, the empowered community could adversely impact icann, which could negatively impact its ability to coordinate the multi-stakeholder system of governance, or negatively affect our interests. also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of icann, the empowered community or us. role of foreign governments . some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned icann's role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. additionally, the role of icann's governmental advisory committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, giving governments more control of internet governance. some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. changes to the roles that foreign governments play in internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. we operate two root zone servers and are contracted to perform the root zone maintainer function. under icann's new gtld program, we face increased risk from these operations. we operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. under the rzma, we play a key operational role in support of the iana function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators. under its new gtld program, icann has recommended delegations into the root zone of a large number of new gtlds. in view of our role as the root zone maintainer, and as a root server operator, we face increased risks should icann's delegation of these new gtlds, which represent unprecedented changes to the root zone in volume and frequency, cause security and stability problems within the dns and/or for parties who rely on the dns. such risks include potential instability of the dns including potential fragmentation of the dns should icann's delegations create sufficient instability, and potential claims based on our role in the root zone provisioning and delegation process. these risks, alone or in the aggregate, have the potential to cause serious harm to our registry services business. further, our business could also be harmed through security, stability and resiliency degradation if the delegation of new gtlds into the root zone causes problems to certain components of the dns ecosystem or other aspects of the global dns, or other relying parties are negatively impacted as a result of domain name collisions or other new gtld security issues, such as exposure or other leakage of private or sensitive information. 13 additionally, dnssec enabled in the root zone and at other levels of the dns requires new preventative maintenance functions and complex operational practices that did not exist prior to the introduction of dnssec. any failure by us or the iana functions operator to comply with stated practices, such as those outlined in relevant dnssec practice statements, introduces risk to dnssec relying parties and other internet users and consumers of the dns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. the evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names. domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers and businesses to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity for many years. the growth of technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. these changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for personal, commercial and investment reasons. factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names following an increase in their value. adverse changes in the resale value of domain names could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our tlds obtained for resale. some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser, the use of an app on their smart phone or mobile device, the use of a voice recognition technology such as alexa, cortana, google assistant, or siri, or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet users' preferences or practices shift away from recognizing and relying on web addresses for navigation through the use of new and existing technologies; (iii) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content; or (iv) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names in our tlds could decrease. this may trigger current or prospective customers and parties in our target markets to reevaluate their need for registration or renewal of domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo!, baidu and bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites and provide less pay-per-click compensation for certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. if any of the above factors negatively impact the renewal of domain names or the demand for new domain names, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. many of our markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. we seek to serve many new, developing and emerging markets in foreign countries to grow our business. these markets are rapidly evolving, and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance or adoption of our services in these markets include the following: regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption; market acceptance and adoption of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use, which are substitutes for our products and services; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices, and in particular the use of alternative internet navigation mechanisms other than web browsers; increasing cyber threats and the associated customer need and demand for our security services offerings; 14 government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet; the maturity and depth of the sales channels within developing and emerging markets and their ability and motivation to establish and support sales for domain names; preference by markets for the use of their own country's cctlds as a substitute or alternative to our tlds; and increased acceptance and use of new gtlds as substitutes for established gtlds. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. we may face operational and other risks from the introduction of new gtlds by icann and our provision of back-end registry services. approximately 1,000 new gtlds have already been delegated in this initial round of new gtlds. icann plans on offering a second round of new gtlds after the completion of the initial round, the timing of which is uncertain. as set forth in the verisign labs technical report #1130007 version 2.2: new gtld security and stability considerations released on march 28, 2013, and expanded upon in our more recent publications, we continue to believe there are issues regarding the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our and others' efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. for example, domain name collisions have been reported to icann, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing attacks. it is anticipated that as additional new gtlds are delegated more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur. we have entered into agreements to provide back-end registry services to other registry operators and applicants for new gtlds. we may face risks regarding icann requirements for mitigating name collisions in the new gtlds which we operate or for which we provide back-end registry services. for example, the possibility exists that controlled interruption periods may disrupt network services or that privacy or secure communications may be impacted as a result of insufficient preparedness by icann and the community for the launch of new gtlds. our agreements with icann to provide registry services in connection with our new gtlds, including our idn gtlds, and our agreements to provide back-end registry services directly to other applicants and indirectly through reseller relationships expose us to operational and other risks. for example, the increase in the number of gtlds for which we provide registry services on a standalone basis or as a back-end service provider could further increase costs or increase the frequency or scope of targeted attacks from nefarious actors. the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services such as new gtlds in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a web presence. we have applied for new gtlds including certain idn gtlds; however, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be as or more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the new gtlds, including our new gtlds, may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn gtlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. as a result of these challenges, it is possible that resolution of domain names within some of these new gtlds may be blocked within certain 15 state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability on the internet. see the competition section in part i, item 1 of this annual report on form 10-k for further information. we must establish and maintain strong relationships with registrars and their resellers to maintain their focus on marketing our products and services otherwise our registry service business could be harmed. all of our domain name registrations occur through registrars. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. our registrars and resellers sell domain name registrations of other competing registries, and some also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, as well as other services. therefore, our registrars and resellers may be more motivated to sell to registrants to whom they can also market their own services. to the extent that registrars and their resellers focus more on selling and supporting their services and less on the registration and renewal of our tlds, our revenues could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. if we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling our tlds as opposed to other competing tlds or their own services, our business could be harmed. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors; computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, unintentional mistakes or errors, and other events beyond our control; risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our shared registration system residing in our secure data centers. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, some or all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. in addition, if these service providers do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the dns through their networks, our business could be harmed. a failure in the operation or update of the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone management system, the tld name servers, or the tld zone files that we operate, or other network functions, could result in a dns resolution or other service outage or degradation; the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet; the deletion of one or more second-level domain names from the internet for a period of time; or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the 16 operation or update of the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could result in similar consequences. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register or maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability, including liability arising from a failure to meet our service level agreements in our registry agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment, including hostilities and conflicts in various regions both inside and outside the u.s., natural disasters, currency fluctuations, and country specific operating regulations may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations. the economic, social and political environment has impacted or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity and our associated ability to execute on any share repurchase plans; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; and our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may have a disproportionate negative impact on our business. our international operations subject our business to additional economic, legal and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the u.s. doing business in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could materially harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting cctlds, which we do not operate; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; currency fluctuations; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; 17 difficulty of verifying customer information, including complying with the customer verification requirements of certain countries; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. we rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and related intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for an external party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to some of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. we also license externally developed technology that is used in some of our products and services to perform key functions. these externally developed technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the verisign logo in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. in addition, in the u.s. and most other countries' word marks for tlds have currently not been successfully registered as trademarks. accordingly, we may not be able to fully realize or maintain the value of these intellectual property assets. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of other parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for external party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. an external party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for 18 which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits and investigations, including with respect to the rzma. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we explore possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the investment in, and the pursuit of, new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings, initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio, our security services business, back-end registry services and idn gtlds. in addition, we have evaluated and are pursuing and will continue to evaluate and pursue acquisitions of tlds that are currently in operation and those that have not yet been awarded as long as they support our growth strategy. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible regulatory scrutiny or third-party claims; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative; as well as damage to our reputation if we are unsuccessful in pursuing a strategic initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net, .name and other tlds, including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review or icann determines that such a review is required, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we operate in a unique competitive and highly regulated environment and we depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our senior management team and other key employees in this regard and otherwise. we periodically experience changes in our management team. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these key individuals and additional highly skilled technical, sales and marketing, and other experienced employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. for example, our service products are highly technical and require individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique platforms and software implementation. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax 19 positions. for example, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded a net income tax benefit of $380.1 million. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. a significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year was earned in low tax jurisdictions. our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. various legislative changes that would reform u.s. corporate tax laws have been or may be proposed by the trump administration as well as members of congress, including proposals that would significantly impact how u.s. multinational corporations are taxed on foreign earnings. we are unable to predict whether these or other proposals will be implemented. although we cannot predict whether or in what form any proposed legislation may pass, if enacted, such legislation could have a material adverse impact on our tax expense or cash flow. our foreign earnings, which are indefinitely reinvested offshore, constitute a majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and there is a high cost associated with a change in our indefinite reinvestment assertion or a repatriation of those funds to the u.s. a majority of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities are held by our foreign subsidiaries. our foreign earnings are indefinitely reinvested offshore and are not available to be used in the u.s. for working capital needs, debt obligations, acquisitions, share repurchases, dividends or other general corporate purposes. in the event that funds from our foreign operations are needed in the u.s. for any purpose, we would be required to accrue and pay additional u.s. taxes in order to repatriate those funds, which could be significant. further, if we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings our effective tax rate would increase. these could adversely impact our business valuation and stock price. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $1.8 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $1.6 billion was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by financial market credit and liquidity events. if the global credit or liquidity market deteriorates or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. 20 our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for an outside party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least thirty-five percent (35%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by a majority of directors then in office; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2016 , we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 103.1 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 12.6 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 ( subordinated convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of outstanding debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness, including any future indebtedness, requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations or to arrange alternative liquidity sources to make principal and interest payments, when due, or to repurchase or settle our debt, if triggered, by certain corporate events, certain events of default, or conversion. it could also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, or make required capital expenditures and investments in our business; make it difficult or more expensive to refinance our debt or obtain new debt; trigger an event of default; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. some of our debt contains covenants which may limit our operating flexibility, including restrictions on share repurchases, dividends, prepayment or repurchase of debt, acquisitions, disposing of assets, if we do not continue to meet certain financial ratios. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency, which could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. the settlement amount, contingent interest, and potential recapture of income tax deductions related to our subordinated convertible debentures can be substantial, and can increase significantly based on changes in our stock price. the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2016 , we had $1.6 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business in several countries and transact in multiple foreign currencies. the functional currency for all of our international subsidiaries is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2016 , we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $39.2 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the subordinated convertible debentures are subject to market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. the fair market value will increase as the market price of our common stock increases, and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes. as of december 31, 2016 , the fair value of the subordinated convertible debentures was approximately $2.8 billion and the fair values of the senior notes issued in 2013 and the senior notes issued in 2015 were $764.1 million and $514.1 million , respectively, based on available market information from public data sources. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on subordinated convertible debentures is also subject to market risk and, to a lesser extent, to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will increase or decrease with the fair market value of the subordinated convertible debentures. 38risk factors 10 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks arising from our agreements governing our registry services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. we are parties to (i) a cooperative agreement (as amended) with the doc with respect to the . com gtld and (ii) registry agreements with icann for .com , .net, .name, and other gtlds including our idn gtlds. as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our registry services business, limitations and obligations in, or changes or challenges to, these agreements, particularly the agreements that involve . com and . net , could have a material adverse impact on our business. certain competing registries, such as the cctlds, do not face the same limitations or obligations that we face in our agreements. modifications or amendments. in october 2016, the company and icann entered into an amendment to extend the term of the .com registry agreement to november 30, 2024 (the .com amendment ). as part of the .com amendment, the company and icann agreed to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the .com registry agreement: (i) by october 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the .com tld, and (ii) as may be necessary for consistency with changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the cooperative agreement. we can provide no assurance that any new terms for the .com registry agreement that we agree to as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. the doc approved the . com amendment under amendment 34 to the cooperative agreement. the doc did not extend the term of the cooperative agreement, which will expire on november 30, 2018, unless the doc, in its sole discretion, extends the term. under amendment 34, the doc has the right to conduct a public interest review for the sole purpose of determining whether the doc will exercise its right to extend the term of the cooperative agreement. in connection with the aforementioned review, we agreed to cooperate fully and to work in good faith to reach a mutual agreement with the doc to resolve issues identified in such review and to work in good faith to implement any agreed upon changes as of the expiration of the current term of the cooperative agreement. we can provide no assurance that any changes that we agree to as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. in addition, our registry agreements for new gtlds, including the registry agreements for our idn gtlds, include icann's right to amend the agreements without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. at the time of renewal of our .com or .net registry agreements, icann might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these registry agreements under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on new gtld registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gtlds. icann might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other registry agreements under certain conditions. we can provide no assurance that any changes to our registry agreements as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. pricing . under the terms of the cooperative agreement with the doc and the .com registry agreement with icann, we are restricted during the term of the registry agreement from increasing the price of registrations or renewals of . com domain names above $7.85, except that we are entitled to increase the price up to 7%, with the prior approval of the doc, due to the imposition of any new icann consensus policies, as established and defined under icann's bylaws and due process, and covering certain items listed in the . com registry agreement, or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the dns. however, it is uncertain that such circumstances will arise, or if they do, whether we would seek, or the doc would approve, any request to increase the price for .com domain name registrations. we also have the right under the cooperative agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate to the doc that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. however, it is uncertain whether we will seek the removal of such restrictions, or whether the doc would approve the removal of such restrictions. in comparison, under the terms of the .net and .name registry agreements with icann, we are permitted to increase the price of domain name registrations and renewals in these tlds up to 10% per year. additionally, icann's registry agreements for new gtlds do not contain such pricing restrictions. vertical integration . under the .com , . net, and . name registry agreements with icann, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership 10 interest in, any icann-accredited registrar. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition; however, icann has established a process whereby registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal in several instances. if we were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements, it is uncertain whether icann and/or doc approval would be obtained. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. furthermore, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to cctld registry operators. if registry operators of other tlds, or cctlds, are able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration, it could materially harm our business. renewal and termination . our . com , . net, and . name registry agreements with icann contain presumptive rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on november 30, 2024, june 30, 2023 and august 15, 2018, respectively. the registry agreements for our new gtlds including our idn gtlds are subject to a 10-year term and contain similar presumptive renewal rights. if certain terms in our .com and .net registry agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gtlds, then a renewal of these agreements shall be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms similar to the registry agreements for those other gtlds. there can be no assurance that such terms, if they apply, will not have a material adverse impact on our business. a renewal of the . com registry agreement must be approved by the doc, which, under certain circumstances, could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement on similar terms, or at all. a failure (i) by icann or the doc to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2024, or (ii) by icann to approve the renewal of the . net registry agreement prior to or upon the expiration of its current term on june 30, 2023, would have, absent an extension, a material adverse effect on our business. icann could terminate or refuse to renew our . com or . net registry agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. icann's termination or refusal to renew either the . com or . net registry agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. consensus policies . our registry agreements with icann require us to implement consensus policies and specifications or policies established on a temporary basis ( temporary policies ). icann could adopt consensus policies or temporary policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com , .net and our other gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. such consensus policies or temporary policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. as an example, icann has adopted a consensus policy that requires verisign to receive and display thick whois data for .com and . net . the costs of complying or failing to comply with this policy as well as laws and regulations regarding publicly identifiable information and data privacy, such as domestic and various foreign privacy regimes, could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. legal challenges . our registry agreements have faced, and could face in the future, challenges, including possible legal challenges, resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the u.s. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations in the u.s. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. for example, the government of the people's republic of china ( prc ) has indicated that it will issue, and in some instances has begun to issue, new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that impose additional costs on, and risks to, our provision of registry services in the prc and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in the prc. in addition to registry operators, certain of such regulations will also require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each tld whose domain name registrations they intend to sell directly to registrants. any failure to obtain the required licenses, or to comply with any license requirements or any updates thereto, by us or our registrars could impact the growth of our business in the prc. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, online gambling, counterfeit goods, and intellectual property violations such as cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have a contract 11 pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and it imposes compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and receive data originating from different jurisdictions, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in may 2018. other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements can impose significant costs for us that are likely to increase over time. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. in addition, as we launch our idn gtlds and increase our marketing efforts of our other tlds in foreign countries, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. undetected or unknown defects in our service, security breaches, defects in the technologies and services in our supply chain, and ddos attacks could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, including dns data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security vulnerabilities and breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet contracted service level obligations, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. in addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. we retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. these forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. in addition, these forms of attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target's supply chain or operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. in addition to external threats, we may be subject to insider threats, including those from third-party suppliers such as consultants and advisors, saas providers, other outside vendors, or from current, former or contract employees; these threats can be realized from intentional or unintentional actions. the shared registration system, the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone management system, the tld name servers and the tld zone files that we operate are critical to our registry services operations. despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, outages resulting from destructive malcode, hardware defects, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of or jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, fail to meet contracted service level obligations, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. 12 we use externally developed technology, systems and services including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including, without limitation, compute, storage, encryption and authentication, back-office support, and other functions. while we have developed operational policies and procedures to reduce the impact of a security breach at a vendor where company data is stored or processed, such measures cannot provide absolute security. breaches of our vendors' technology, systems and services could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of company data, including but not limited to personal information. additionally, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to ddos attacks. recent attacks have demonstrated that ddos attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have an ability to widely disrupt internet services. while we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our registry services customers and the broader internet community. further, we sell ddos protection services to our security services customers. although we increase our knowledge of and develop new techniques in the identification and mitigation of attacks through the protection of our security services customers, the ddos protection services share some of the infrastructure used in our registry services business. therefore the provision of such services might expose our critical registry services infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any attacks directed specifically against us and our networks. changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. the internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as icann, governments including the u.s. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. role of the u.s. government . in the fourth quarter of 2016, the united states government completed a transition to the multistakeholder community of the historical role played by ntia in the coordination of the dns. changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. for example, icann has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance accountability through a new organization called the empowered community, which is comprised of a cross section of stakeholders. icann or the empowered community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business. by completing the transition discussed above, the u.s. government through the ntia has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the dns including the iana functions and the root zone. there can be no assurance that the removal of the u.s. government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business. role of icann . icann plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. icann is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. if icann or the empowered community fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. additionally, the empowered community could adversely impact icann, which could negatively impact its ability to coordinate the multi-stakeholder system of governance, or negatively affect our interests. also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of icann, the empowered community or us. role of foreign governments . some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned icann's role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. additionally, the role of icann's governmental advisory committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, giving governments more control of certain aspects of internet governance. some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. changes to the roles that foreign governments play in internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. 13 we face risks from our operation of two root zone servers and performance of the root zone maintainer functions under the rzma. we operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. we also have an important operational role in support of a key iana function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators under an agreement with icann, the root zone maintainer service agreement ( rzma ). as we perform the root zone maintainer functions under the rzma, we may be subject to significant claims challenging the agreement or our performance under the agreement, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification for, such claims. for example, dnssec enabled in the root zone and at other levels of the dns requires new preventative maintenance, including root key signing key ( ksk ) rollover, functions and complex operational practices that did not exist prior to the introduction of dnssec. any failure by us, icann, external dns vendors and service providers, or relying parties to comply with stated practices, such as those outlined in relevant dnssec practice statements, introduces risk to dnssec relying parties and other internet users and consumers of the dns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in particular, because root ksk rollover involves updates both to certain keys managed by us in our role as root zone maintainer and to corresponding keys maintained by external dns vendors and service providers' dnssec implementations, if such external parties are not adequately prepared for and/or do not appropriately effectuate root key updates, any root ksk rollover, including the rollover currently planned by icann, may introduce substantial risk to relying parties. even where we have correctly implemented our key updates, we could face potential legal claims and reputational harm if the failures described occur. additionally, over 1,200 new gtlds have already been delegated into the root zone in the current round of new gtlds. icann plans on offering a subsequent round of new gtlds , the timing of which remains uncertain. as set forth in the verisign labs technical report #1130007 version 2.2: new gtld security and stability considerations released on march 28, 2013, and expanded upon in subsequent publications, we continue to believe there are potential security and stability issues that could involve the root zone and at other levels of the dns from the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our and others' efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. for example, domain name collisions have been reported to icann, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing attacks. it is anticipated that as additional new gtlds are delegated more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur. the evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names. domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers and businesses to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity for many years. the growth of technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. these changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for personal, commercial and investment reasons. factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names following an increase in their value. adverse changes in the resale value of domain names could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our tlds obtained for resale. some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser, the use of an app on their smart phone or mobile device, the use of a voice recognition technology such as alexa, cortana, google assistant, or siri, or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet users' preferences or practices shift away from recognizing and relying on web addresses for navigation through the use of new and existing technologies; (iii) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content; (iv) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of domain names to develop and protect their online identity; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names in our tlds could decrease. this may trigger current or prospective customers and parties in our target markets to reevaluate their need for registration or renewal of domain names. 14 some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo!, baidu and bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites and provide less pay-per-click compensation for certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. if any of the above factors negatively impact the renewal of domain names or the demand for new domain names, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. many of our markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. we seek to serve many new, developing and emerging markets in foreign countries to grow our business. these markets are rapidly evolving, and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance or adoption of our services in these markets include the following: regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption; market acceptance and adoption of substitute products and services that enable online presence without a domain, including social media, ecommerce platforms, website builders and mobile applications; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices, and in particular the use of internet navigation mobile applications as the primary engagement mechanism; increasing cyber threats and the associated customer need and demand for our security services offerings; government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet; the maturity and depth of the sales channels within developing and emerging markets and their ability and motivation to establish and support sales for domain names; preference by markets for the use of their own country's cctlds as a substitute or alternative to our tlds; and increased acceptance and use of new gtlds as substitutes for established gtlds. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services such as new gtlds in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. 15 we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a web presence. we have been designated as the registry operator for new gtlds including certain idn gtlds; however, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be as or more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the new gtlds, including our new gtlds, may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and developers of desktop and mobile device software may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn gtlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. as a result of these challenges, it is possible that resolution of domain names within some of these new gtlds may be blocked within certain state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability on the internet. see the competition section in part i, item 1 for further information. we must establish and maintain strong relationships with registrars and their resellers to maintain their focus on marketing our products and services otherwise our registry service business could be harmed. all of our domain name registrations occur through registrars. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names as well as their own associated offerings. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. our registrars and resellers sell domain name registrations of other competing registries, including the new gtlds, and some also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, as well as other services. therefore, our registrars and resellers may be more motivated to sell to registrants to whom they can also market their own services. to the extent that registrars and their resellers focus more on selling and supporting their services and less on the registration and renewal of domain names in our tlds, our revenues could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. if we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling registrations of domain names in our tlds as opposed to other competing tlds, including the new gtlds, or their own services, our business could be harmed. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors; computer viruses, software defects, or hardware defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, unintentional mistakes or errors, and other events beyond our control; risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. 16 in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the secure and efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our shared registration system residing in our secure data centers. these connections depend upon the secure and efficient operation of internet service providers, internet exchange point operators, and internet backbone service providers, some or all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. in addition, if these service providers do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the dns through their networks, our business could be harmed. a failure in the operation or update of the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone management system, the tld name servers, or the tld zone files that we operate, including, for example, our operation of the .gov registry, or other network functions, could result in a dns resolution or other service outage or degradation; the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet; the deletion of one or more second-level domain names from the internet for a period of time; or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the operation or update of the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could result in similar consequences. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register or maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability, including liability arising from a failure to meet our service level agreements in our registry agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the reliability of our services or call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unfavorable global economic, social and political environment has impacted or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers' ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity and our associated ability to execute on any share repurchase plans; and our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may have a disproportionate negative impact on our business. our international operations subject our business to additional economic, legal and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the u.s. doing business in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could materially harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting their cctlds, which we do not operate; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts, and compliance with foreign laws; 17 tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; currency fluctuations; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information, including complying with the customer verification requirements of certain countries; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. we rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and related intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for an external party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to some of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. we also license externally developed technology that is used in some of our products and services to perform key functions. these externally developed technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate verisign in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the verisign logo in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. in addition, in the u.s. and most other countries, word marks solely for tlds have currently not been successfully registered as trademarks. accordingly, we may not be able to fully realize or maintain the value of these intellectual property assets. 18 we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of other parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for external party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. an external party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits, audits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations, including with respect to the rzma. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits, audits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we explore possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the investment in, and the pursuit of, new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings, initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio, our security services business, back-end registry services and idn gtlds. in addition, we have evaluated and are pursuing and will continue to evaluate and pursue acquisitions of tlds that are currently in operation and those that have not yet been awarded or delegated as long as they support our growth strategy. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible regulatory scrutiny or third-party claims; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative; as well as damage to our reputation if we are unsuccessful in pursuing a strategic initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net, .name and other tlds, including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review or icann determines that such a review is required, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. 19 we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we operate in a unique competitive and highly regulated environment, and we depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our senior management team and other key employees in this regard and otherwise. we periodically experience changes in our management team. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these key individuals and additional highly skilled technical, sales and marketing, and other experienced employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. for example, our service products are highly technical and require individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique platforms, operating systems and software development tools. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our income taxes. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis because of a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. for example, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded a net income tax benefit of $380.1 million. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. the tax cuts and jobs act ( tax act ) was enacted on december 22, 2017. the tax act significantly revamped u.s. taxation of corporations, including a reduction of the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a limitation on interest deductibility, and a new tax regime for foreign earnings. the limitation on interest deductibility, the new u.s. taxes on accumulated and future foreign earnings, other adverse changes resulting from the tax act, or a change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings, might offset the benefit from the reduced tax rate, and our future effective tax rates and/or cash taxes may increase, even significantly, or not decrease much, compared to recent or historical trends. many of the provisions of the tax act are highly complex and may be subject to further interpretive guidance from the irs or others. some of the provisions of the tax act may be changed by a future congress or challenged by the world trade organization ( wto ) or be subject to trade or tax retaliation by other countries. although we cannot predict the nature or outcome of such future interpretive guidance, or actions by a future congress, wto or other countries, they could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we might also reassess our capital structure, including the amount and composition of our total indebtedness, as a result of the lower tax rate and the limitation on interest deductibility, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. income tax expense on accumulated foreign earnings recorded as a result of the tax act is a provisional amount and reflects our current best estimate, which may be adjusted over the course of 2018 and materially impact our results of operations. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $2.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $1.9 billion was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by financial market credit and liquidity events. if the global credit or liquidity market deteriorates or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. 20 we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, easements or other encumbrances, a government exercising its right of eminent domain, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for an outside party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least twenty-five percent (25%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by a majority of directors then in office; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2017 , we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 97.6 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 14.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 ( subordinated convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of subordinated convertible debentures into our common stock. in february 2018, we called for the redemption of all the outstanding subordinated convertible debentures. the debentures will be redeemed on may 1, 2018 and may be converted at any time before the close of business on monday, april 30, 2018. if holders elect to convert their debentures, we intend to settle the $1.25 billion principal value in cash, and the excess value will be settled through the issuance of shares of verisign's stock. issuance of shares to settle the subordinated convertible debentures or under our equity plans would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 21 our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of outstanding debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness, including any future indebtedness, requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations or to arrange alternative liquidity sources to make principal and interest payments, when due, or to repurchase or settle our debt, if triggered, by certain corporate events, certain events of default, or conversion. it could also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, or make required capital expenditures and investments in our business; make it difficult or more expensive to refinance our debt or obtain new debt; trigger an event of default; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. some of our debt contains covenants which may limit our operating flexibility, including restrictions on share repurchases, dividends, prepayment or repurchase of debt, acquisitions, disposing of assets, if we do not continue to meet certain financial ratios. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency, which could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2017 , we had $2.2 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business in several countries and transact in multiple foreign currencies. the functional currency for all of our international subsidiaries is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2017 , we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $29.7 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our subordinated convertible debentures and the senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the subordinated convertible debentures are subject to market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. the fair market value will increase as the market price of our common stock increases, and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. as of december 31, 2017 , the fair value of the subordinated convertible debentures was approximately $4.2 billion and the fair values of the senior notes issued in 2013, the senior notes issued in 2015, and the senior notes issued in 2017 were $772.9 million , $544.4 million , and $563.7 million , respectively, based on available market information from public data sources. 38risk factors 9 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks arising from our agreements governing our registry services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. we are parties to (i) a cooperative agreement (as amended) with the doc with respect to the . com gtld and (ii) registry agreements with icann for .com , .net, .name, and other gtlds including our idn gtlds. as substantially all of our revenues are derived from our registry services business, limitations and obligations in, or changes or challenges to, these agreements, particularly the agreements that involve . com and . net , could have a material adverse impact on our business. certain competing registries, such as the cctlds, do not face the same limitations or obligations that we face in our agreements. verisign and the doc entered into amendment 35 of the cooperative agreement on october 26, 2018, which, among other items, extends the term of the cooperative agreement until november 30, 2024. the cooperative agreement will automatically renew on the same terms for successive six-year terms unless the doc provides written notice of non-renewal 120 days prior to the end of the then-current term. further changes to the cooperative agreement require the mutual agreement of the doc and the company. modifications or amendments. in october 2016, the company and icann entered into an amendment to extend the term of the .com registry agreement to november 30, 2024 (the .com amendment ). as part of the .com amendment, the company and icann agreed to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the .com registry agreement: (i) by october 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the .com tld, and (ii) as may be necessary for consistency with changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the cooperative agreement. icann and verisign are engaged in discussions to satisfy this obligation including modifying the . com registry agreement based on changes to the cooperative agreement arising from amendment 35. we can provide no assurance that any new terms for the .com registry agreement that we agree to as a result of these discussions will match the changes permitted in amendment 35 nor can we provide assurances that certain terms that we agree to will not increase the costs or risks associated with the operation of the . com tld. under amendment 35, standard renewals of the . com registry agreement will not require further doc approval. if, in connection with a renewal of the .com registry agreement the company seeks any additional changes to the pricing section other than as approved in amendment 35, changes to the vertical integration provisions, the functional or performance specifications (including the slas), the conditions for renewal or termination, or to the whois service, as set forth in the amendment 35, doc approval is required. we can provide no assurances that such approval would be obtained. in addition, our registry agreements for new gtlds, including the registry agreements for our idn gtlds, include icann's right to amend the agreements without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. at the time of renewal of our .com or .net registry agreements, icann might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these registry agreements under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on new gtld registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gtlds. icann might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other registry agreements under certain conditions. we can provide no assurance that any changes to our registry agreements as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. pricing . under the terms of amendment 35 to the cooperative agreement, the company and icann may agree to amend the terms of the . com registry agreement to permit the price of registrations or renewals of . com domain names to be increased by up to 7% per year in each of the final four years of each six-year period beginning on october 26, 2018. in addition, we are entitled to increase the price up to 7%, with the prior approval of the doc, due to the imposition of any new icann consensus policies, as established and defined under icann's bylaws and due process, and covering certain items listed in the . com registry agreement, or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the dns. however, it is uncertain that these additional circumstances will arise, or if they do, whether we would seek, or the doc would approve, any request to increase the price for .com domain name registrations. we also have the right under the cooperative agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate to the doc that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. however, it is uncertain whether we will seek the removal of such restrictions, or whether the doc would approve the removal of such restrictions. in comparison, under the terms of the .net and .name registry agreements with icann, we are permitted to increase the price of domain name registrations and renewals in these tlds up to 10% per year. additionally, icann's registry agreements for new gtlds do not contain such pricing restrictions. 9 vertical integration . under amendment 35, the parties clarified that the restrictions in the .com registry agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the . com tld. as to the . com tld, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar that sells . com domain name registrations. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to a vertical integration prohibition; however, icann has established a process whereby registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal for certain other registry operators. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. if we seek to remove the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements, it is uncertain whether icann approval would be obtained. furthermore, even if we obtain such approval, we can provide no assurances that we will enter the domain name retail market, or that we will be successful if we choose to do so. if registry operators of other tlds, including cctlds, are able to obtain competitive advantages through vertical integration, and we are not, it could materially harm our business. renewal and termination . our . com , . net, and . name registry agreements with icann contain presumptive rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on november 30, 2024, june 30, 2023 and august 15, 2020, respectively. the registry agreements for our new gtlds including our idn gtlds are subject to a 10-year term and contain similar presumptive renewal rights. if certain terms in our .com and .net registry agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gtlds, then a renewal of these agreements shall be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms similar to the registry agreements for those other gtlds. there can be no assurance that such terms, if they apply, will not have a material adverse impact on our business. a failure by icann to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2024 or to approve the renewal of the . net registry agreement prior to or upon the expiration of its current term on june 30, 2023, would have, absent an extension, a material adverse effect on our business. icann could terminate or refuse to renew our . com or . net registry agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. icann's termination or refusal to renew either the . com or . net registry agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. consensus policies . our registry agreements with icann require us to implement consensus policies and specifications or policies established on a temporary basis ( temporary policies ). icann could adopt consensus policies or temporary policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com , .net and our other gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. such consensus policies or temporary policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. as an example, icann has adopted a consensus policy that requires verisign to receive and display thick whois data for .com and . net . in addition, icann has adopted a temporary specification that establishes temporary requirements for registry operators and registrars regarding the collection, display and disclosure of thick whois data pending icann's establishment of a permanent consensus policy. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these policies as well as laws and regulations, such as general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), regarding personally identifiable information and data privacy, such as domestic and various foreign privacy regimes, could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. technical standards and icann processes. our registry agreements with icann require verisign to implement and comply with various technical standards and specifications published by the internet engineering task force ( ietf ). icann could impose requirements on us through changes to these ietf standards that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. any such changes to the ietf standards could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, under amendment 35, we have agreed to continue to operate the . com tld in a content-neutral manner and to work within icann processes to promote the development of content neutral policies for the operation of the dns. such policies could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. legal challenges . our registry agreements have faced, and could face in the future, challenges, including possible legal challenges, resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the u.s. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations in the u.s. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. for example, the government of china has indicated that it will issue, and in some instances has begun to issue, new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that impose additional costs on, and risks to, our provision of 10 registry services in china and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in china. in addition to registry operators, certain of such regulations also require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each tld whose domain name registrations they intend to sell directly to registrants. any failure to obtain the required licenses, or to comply with any license requirements or any updates thereto, by us or our registrars could impact the growth of our business in china. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, online gambling, counterfeit goods, and intellectual property violations such as cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and receive data originating from different jurisdictions, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's gdpr, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and significant penalties, became effective in may 2018. other countries and other states have enacted or are enacting data localization laws regulating or limiting data collection, storage and transfer. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements can impose significant costs for us that are likely to increase over time. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that federal, state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified or enforced using new or novel legal theories, and new laws may be enacted in the future. in addition, as we continue to launch our idn gtlds and increase our marketing efforts of our other tlds in foreign countries, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, expose us to liability, penalties or fines, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such laws could impede growth of, or result in a decline in, domain name registrations. undetected or unknown defects in our service, security breaches, defects in the technologies and services in our supply chain, and ddos attacks could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in service outages, compromised customer data, including dns data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security vulnerabilities and breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet contracted service level obligations, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. in addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. we retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy as well as fulfilling our obligations as the registry operator for .com and .net, that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure, that we continue to meet our service level agreements and we maintain the public's trust in the internet services that we provide. the company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. these forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. in addition, these forms of attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target's supply chain or operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. in addition to external threats, we may be subject to insider threats, including those from third-party suppliers such as consultants and advisors, saas providers, hardware, software, and network systems manufacturers, and other outside vendors, or from current or former contractors or employees; these threats can be realized from intentional or unintentional actions. the shared registration system, the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone management system, the tld name servers and the tld zone files that we operate are critical to our registry services operations. therefore, attacks against third-party suppliers that provide services to our registry services operations could also impact our infrastructure. despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as disclosed in our quarterly report on form 11 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, disruptions resulting from destructive malware, hardware or enabling software defects, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of, or jeopardize the security of, information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, fail to meet contracted service level obligations, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business or cause financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. we use externally developed technology, systems and services including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including, without limitation, compute, storage, encryption and authentication, back-office support, and other functions. while we have developed operational policies and procedures to reduce the impact of security vulnerabilities in system components, as well as at any vendors where company data is stored or processed, such measures cannot provide absolute security. vulnerabilities in, and exploits leading to, breaches of our vendors' technology, systems or services could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of company data, including but not limited to sensitive personally identifiable information. additionally, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to ddos attacks. recent attacks have demonstrated that ddos attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have an ability to widely disrupt internet services. particularly since 2016, the size of ddos attacks has grown rapidly, and we have successfully mitigated ddos attacks during this time frame that are significantly larger than those we have historically experienced. while we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our registry services customers and the broader internet community. we have historically incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs to enable our infrastructure to process levels of attack traffic that are significant multiples of our normal transaction volume. further, we are in the process of transitioning our security services customer contracts to neustar. during this migration period, we will continue to operate ddos protection services for customers that have yet to transition. these ddos protection services share some of the infrastructure used in our registry services business. therefore the operation of such services might expose our critical registry services infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any attacks directed specifically against us and our networks. changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. the internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as icann, governments including the u.s. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. role of the u.s. government . in the fourth quarter of 2016, the united states government completed a transition to the multi-stakeholder community of the historical role played by the national telecommunications and information administration ( ntia ) in the coordination of the dns. changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. for example, icann has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance accountability through a new organization called the empowered community, which is comprised of a cross section of stakeholders. icann or the empowered community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business. by completing the transition discussed above, the u.s. government through the ntia has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the dns including the iana functions and the root zone. there can be no assurance that the removal of the u.s. government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business. role of icann . icann plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. icann is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. if icann or the empowered community fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. additionally, the empowered community could adversely impact icann, which could negatively impact its ability to coordinate the multi-stakeholder system of governance, or negatively affect our interests. also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of icann, the empowered community or us. 12 role of foreign governments . some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned icann's role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. additionally, the role of icann's governmental advisory committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, and give governments more control of certain aspects of internet governance. some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. changes to the roles that foreign governments play in internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. we face risks from our operation of two root zone servers and performance of the root zone maintainer functions under the rzma. we operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. we also have an important operational role in support of a key iana function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators under an agreement with icann, the root zone maintainer service agreement ( rzma ). as we perform the root zone maintainer services under the rzma, we may be subject to significant claims challenging the agreement or our performance under the agreement, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification or insurance for, such claims. for example, dnssec enabled in the root zone and at other levels of the dns requires new preventative maintenance, including root key signing key ( ksk ) rollover, necessitating functions and complex operational practices that did not exist prior to the introduction of dnssec. any failure by us, icann, external dns vendors and service providers, or other relying parties to comply with stated practices, such as those outlined in relevant dnssec practice statements and internet standards, introduces risk to dnssec relying parties and other internet users and consumers of the dns, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. in particular, because root ksk rollover involves updates to the ksk public key (the trust anchor ) and private key pair managed by icann's public technical identifiers (pti) operation, to the root zone dnssec records published by us in our role as root zone maintainer; and, to corresponding trust anchor configurations maintained by external dns vendors and service providers' dnssec-aware implementations, if such external parties are not adequately prepared for and/or do not appropriately effectuate root key updates, any root ksk rollover, including the initial rollover that occurred on october 11, 2018 at icann's direction, may introduce substantial risk to relying parties. even where we have correctly implemented our key updates, we could face potential legal claims and reputational harm if the failures described occur. additionally, over 1,200 new gtlds have already been delegated into the root zone in the current round of new gtlds. icann plans on offering a subsequent round of new gtlds, the timing of which remains uncertain. we believe there are potential security and stability issues that could involve the root zone and at other levels of the dns from the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our and others' efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. for example, domain name collisions have been reported to icann, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing and other cyber-attacks. it is anticipated that as additional new gtlds are delegated now, or in subsequent rounds, more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur. the evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names. domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers and businesses to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity for many years. the growth of technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. these changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for personal, commercial and investment reasons. factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names at an increased price. adverse changes in the resale value of domain names, changes in the business models for such domain name registrars and registrants, or other factors could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our tlds. the resulting decrease in demand and/or renewal rates could negatively impact the volume of new domain name registrations, our renewal rates and our associated revenue growth. some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a 13 web browser, the use of an app on their smart phone or mobile device, the use of a voice recognition technology such as alexa, cortana, google assistant, or siri, or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet users' preferences or practices shift away from recognizing and relying on web addresses for navigation through the use of new and existing technologies; (iii) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content; (iv) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of domain names to develop and protect their online identity; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names in our tlds could decrease. this may trigger current or prospective customers and parties in our target markets to reevaluate their need for registration or renewal of domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo!, baidu and bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites and provide less pay-per-click compensation for certain types of websites. this has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. if any of the above factors negatively impact the renewal of domain names or the demand for new domain names, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. many of our markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. we seek to serve many new, developing and emerging markets in foreign countries to grow our business. these markets are rapidly evolving, and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance or adoption of our services in these markets include the following: regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption; market acceptance and adoption of substitute products and services that enable online presence without a domain, including social media, e-commerce platforms, website builders and mobile applications; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices, and in particular the use of internet navigation mobile applications as the primary engagement mechanism; increasing cyber threats; government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, data security or data localization, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet; the maturity and depth of the sales channels within developing and emerging markets and their ability and motivation to establish and support sales for domain names; preference by markets for the use of their own country's cctlds as a substitute or alternative to our tlds; and increased acceptance and use of new gtlds as substitutes for established gtlds. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or potentially launch entirely new products and services such as new 14 gtlds in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a web presence. we have been designated as the registry operator for certain new gtlds including certain idn gtlds; however, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be as or more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the new gtlds, including our new gtlds, may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and developers of desktop and mobile device software may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn gtlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. as a result of these challenges, it is possible that resolution of domain names within some of these new gtlds may be blocked within certain state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability on the internet. see the competition section in part i, item 1 for further information. we must establish and maintain strong relationships with registrars and their resellers to maintain their focus on marketing our products and services otherwise our registry services business could be harmed. all of our domain name registrations occur through registrars. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names as well as their own associated offerings. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. our registrars and resellers sell domain name registrations of other competing registries, including the new gtlds, and some also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, as well as other services. therefore, our registrars and resellers may be more motivated to sell to registrants to whom they can also market their own services. to the extent that registrars and their resellers focus more on selling and supporting their services and less on the registration and renewal of domain names in our tlds, our revenues could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. if we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling registrations of domain names in our tlds as opposed to other competing tlds, including the new gtlds, or their own services, our business could be harmed. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors; computer viruses, software defects, or hardware defects, both in our systems and those of our service providers and suppliers; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, unintentional mistakes or errors, and other events beyond our control; risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; interconnection and internet routing system vulnerabilities; 15 state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. in 2019, we will begin transitioning some of our data center operations to a leased data center facility in ashburn, virginia. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the secure and efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our shared registration system residing in our secure data centers. these connections depend upon the secure and efficient operation of internet service providers, internet exchange point operators, and internet backbone service providers, some or all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. in addition, if these service providers do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the dns through their networks, our business could be harmed. a failure in the operation or update of the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone management system, the tld name servers, or the tld zone files that we operate, including, for example, our operation of the .gov registry, or other network functions, could result in a dns resolution or other service outage or degradation; the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet; the deletion of one or more second-level domain names from the internet for a period of time; or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the operation or update of the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could result in similar consequences. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register or maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability and exposure, including from a failure to meet our service level agreements in our registry agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the reliability of our services or call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unfavorable global market, economic, social and political environment has impacted or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' continued growth and development of their businesses, or their ability to maintain their businesses and continue as going concerns, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity and our associated ability to execute on any share repurchase plans; and our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations. in addition, to the extent that the market, economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many end-users of our products are concentrated, that may have a disproportionate negative impact on our business. our international operations subject our business to additional economic, legal and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the u.s. our business operations in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. 16 failure to do so could materially harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting their cctlds, which we do not operate; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts, and compliance with foreign laws; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; currency fluctuations; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information, including complying with the customer verification requirements of certain countries; more stringent privacy and data localization policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. we rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and related intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for an external party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to some of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the internet engineering task force. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, in some cases we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms or otherwise be limited in our ability to assert such patents. we also license externally developed technology that is used in some of our products and services to perform key functions. these externally developed technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our registry services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate verisign in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or 17 enforce the verisign logo in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. in addition, in the u.s. and most other countries, word marks solely for tlds have currently not been successfully registered as trademarks. accordingly, we may not be able to fully realize or maintain the value of these intellectual property assets. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of other parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for external party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. an external party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits, audits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations. for example, afilias, a competitor and a losing bidder in the . web auction, filed an arbitration proceeding against icann on november 14, 2018, alleging that icann's failure to disqualify nu dotco, llc ( ndc ) from participating in the .web auction violated icann's rules. the arbitration, which was filed more than two years after the . web auction took place, seeks to compel icann to award the . web tld to afilias. neither verisign nor ndc currently are parties in the afilias arbitration, but both have filed requests to participate in the arbitration as interested parties as allowed by icann's rules. we believe afilias' claims against icann are without merit. if afilias were successful in the arbitration on its claims that icann violated its own rules, we believe that icann would still need to make a further determination to remedy such a violation. nevertheless, it is possible that afilias or another party could potentially become the operator of the . web tld. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and unexpected judgments or excessive verdicts do occur. in addition, such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. adverse outcomes in lawsuits, audits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, such as our ability to obtain the . web gtld, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. 18 we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we explore possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the investment in, and the pursuit of, new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings, initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio, back-end registry services and idn gtlds. in addition, we have evaluated and are pursuing and will continue to evaluate and pursue acquisitions of tlds that are currently in operation and those that have not yet been awarded or delegated as long as they support our growth strategy. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel, including, for example, management involvement in the transition of security services customers to neustar; possible regulatory scrutiny or third-party claims; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative; as well as damage to our reputation if we are unsuccessful in pursuing a strategic initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net, .name and other tlds, including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review or icann determines that such a review is required, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we operate in a unique competitive and highly regulated environment, and we depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our senior management team and other key employees in this regard and otherwise. we periodically experience changes in our management team. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these key individuals as well as other highly skilled employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. for example, our service products are highly technical and require individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique platforms, operating systems and software development tools. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our income taxes. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis because of a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, changes in tax laws that could adversely impact our income or non-income taxes or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. for example, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded a net income tax benefit of $380.1 million. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. the tax cuts and jobs act ( tax act ) was enacted on december 22, 2017. the tax act significantly revamped u.s. taxation of corporations, including a reduction of the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a limitation on interest deductibility, and a new tax regime for foreign earnings. our decision to redeem the convertible debentures, the new u.s. taxes on accumulated and future foreign earnings, other adverse changes resulting from the tax act, or a change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings, might offset the benefit from the reduced tax rate, and our future effective tax rates and/or cash taxes may increase, even significantly, or not decrease much, compared to recent or historical trends. many of the provisions of the tax act are highly complex and may be subject to further interpretive guidance from the irs or others. some of the provisions of the tax act may be changed by a future congress or challenged by the world trade organization ( wto ) or be subject to trade or tax retaliation by other countries. although we cannot predict the nature or outcome of such future interpretive guidance, or actions by a future congress, wto or other countries, they could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. 19 our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2018, we had $1.28 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $912.3 million was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by financial market credit and liquidity events. if the global credit or liquidity market deteriorates or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, easements or other encumbrances, a government exercising its right of eminent domain, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements or repairs; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for an outside party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least twenty-five percent (25%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by a majority of directors then in office; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. 20 our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of outstanding debt, and we periodically reassess our capital structure and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness, including any future indebtedness, requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations or to arrange alternative liquidity sources to make principal and interest payments, when due, or to repurchase or settle our debt, if triggered, by certain corporate events, or certain events of default. it could also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, or make required capital expenditures and investments in our business; make it difficult or more expensive to refinance our debt or obtain new debt; trigger an event of default; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. some of our debt contains covenants which may limit our operating flexibility, including restrictions on share repurchases, dividends, prepayment or repurchase of debt, acquisitions, disposing of assets, if we do not continue to meet certain financial ratios. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency, which could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2018 , we had $1.12 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business in several countries and transact in multiple foreign currencies. the functional currency for all of our international subsidiaries is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2018 , we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $28.5 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of december 31, 2018 , the fair values of the senior notes issued in 2013, the senior notes issued in 2015, and the senior notes issued in 2017 were $741.3 million , $502.2 million , and $524.2 million , respectively, based on available market information from public data sources. 36risk factors 10 risk factors please carefully consider the following discussion of significant factors, events and uncertainties that make an investment in our securities risky. in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business. when the factors, events and contingencies described below or elsewhere in this form 10-k materialize, our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, cash flows or prospects can be materially adversely affected. in such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our business, operating results, financial condition, reputation, cash flows and prospects. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks arising from our agreements governing our business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. we are parties to (i) a cooperative agreement, as amended, with the doc with respect to the . com gtld and (ii) registry agreements with icann with respect to the .com , .net, .name, and other gtlds including our idn gtlds. as substantially all of our revenues are derived from operation of these gtlds, limitations and obligations in, or changes or challenges to, these agreements, particularly the agreements that involve . com and . net , could have a material adverse impact on our business. certain competing registries, such as the cctlds, are not subject to the same limitations or obligations that we are subject to in our agreements. verisign and the doc entered into amendment 35 to the cooperative agreement on october 26, 2018, which, among other things, extends the term of the cooperative agreement through november 30, 2024. as amended by amendment 35, the cooperative agreement will automatically renew on the same terms for successive six-year terms unless the doc provides written notice of non-renewal within 120 days prior to the end of the then-current term. further changes to the cooperative agreement require the mutual agreement of the doc and the company. modifications or amendments. in october 2016, the company and icann entered into an amendment to extend the term of the .com registry agreement to november 30, 2024 ( first .com amendment ). as part of the first .com amendment, the company and icann agreed to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the .com registry agreement: (i) by october 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the .com tld, and (ii) as may be necessary for consistency with changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the cooperative agreement. on january 3, 2020, the company and icann announced that they reached a proposed agreement to amend the .com registry agreement ( proposed .com amendment ) and to enter into a new proposed framework for working together on initiatives related to the security, stability and resiliency of the dns in the form of a binding letter of intent ( proposed loi ). together these agreements satisfy the requirements described as part of the first .com amendment. in conjunction with the public announcement, icann published the proposed .com amendment and the proposed loi for public comment until february 14, 2020. although we do not anticipate changes to these documents, we can provide no assurance that modifications will not be made in connection with the public comment process or otherwise. see the industry regulation section in part i, item 1 for further information. under the cooperative agreement, as amended by amendment 35, standard renewals of the . com registry agreement will not require further doc approval, although removal of, or any changes to the pricing section (other than as approved in amendment 35), changes to the vertical integration provisions (other than the clarification approved in amendment 35), changes to the security, stability and resiliency posture as reflected in the functional or performance specifications (including the slas), changes to the conditions for renewal or termination, or changes to the whois service (other than such changes mandated by icann through temporary specifications or policies ( temporary policies ) and specifications or polices adopted by icann pursuant to the procedures set forth in its bylaws and due process ( consensus policies )), as set forth in amendment 35, the prior written approval of the doc is required. we can provide no assurances that such approval would be provided. in addition, our registry agreements for new gtlds, including the registry agreements for our idn gtlds, include icann's right to amend the agreements without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gtlds. at the time of renewal of our .com or .net registry agreements, icann might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these registry agreements under certain conditions. icann has also included new mandatory obligations on new gtld registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gtlds. icann might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other registry agreements under certain conditions. we can provide no assurance that any changes to our registry agreements as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. pricing . under the terms of the cooperative agreement, as amended by amendment 35, the company and icann may agree to amend the terms of the . com registry agreement to permit the price of registrations or renewals of . com domain names to be increased by up to 7% per year in each of the final four years of each six-year period beginning on october 26, 2018. the proposed .com amendment would allow such price increases. 10 in addition, we are entitled to increase the price up to 7% due to the imposition of any new consensus policies or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the dns ( extraordinary expense ). the proposed .com amendment would clarify that verisign's ability to increase prices due to a consensus policy or extraordinary expense may occur only in years where verisign does not take a price increase as described in the above paragraph. it is uncertain whether circumstances would arise that would permit a price increase due to a consensus policy or extraordinary expense, or if they do, whether we would seek to increase the price for .com domain name registrations for this reason. we also have the right under the cooperative agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate to the doc that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. however, it is uncertain whether we will seek the removal of such restrictions, or whether the doc would approve the removal of such restrictions. in comparison, under the terms of the .net and .name registry agreements with icann, we are permitted to increase the price of domain name registrations and renewals in these tlds up to 10% per year. additionally, icann's registry agreements for new gtlds do not contain such pricing restrictions. vertical integration . under amendment 35, the parties clarified that the restrictions in the .com registry agreement relating to vertical integration apply solely to the . com tld. this clarification is now set forth in the proposed .com amendment. as to the . com tld, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership interest in, any icann-accredited registrar that sells . com domain name registrations. historically, all gtld registry operators were subject to a vertical integration prohibition; however, icann has established a process whereby registry operators may seek icann's approval to remove this restriction, and icann has approved such removal for certain other registry operators. additionally, icann's registry agreement for new gtlds generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including icann's right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. if we seek to become vertically integrated, except with respect to . com , it is uncertain whether approval to do so would be obtained under icann's processes. furthermore, even if we obtain such approval, we can provide no assurances that we will enter the domain name retail market, or that we will be successful if we choose to do so. if registry operators of other tlds, including cctlds, are able to obtain competitive advantages through vertical integration, and we are not, it could materially harm our business. renewal and termination . our . com , . net, and . name registry agreements with icann contain presumptive rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on november 30, 2024, june 30, 2023 and august 15, 2020, respectively. the registry agreements for our new gtlds including our idn gtlds are subject to a 10-year term and contain similar presumptive renewal rights. if certain terms in our .com and .net registry agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gtlds, then a renewal of these agreements shall be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms similar to the registry agreements for those other gtlds. there can be no assurance that such terms, if they apply, will not have a material adverse impact on our business. a failure by icann to approve the renewal of the .com registry agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on november 30, 2024 or to approve the renewal of the . net registry agreement prior to or upon the expiration of its current term on june 30, 2023, would have, absent an extension, a material adverse effect on our business. icann could terminate or refuse to renew our . com or . net registry agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. icann's termination or refusal to renew either the . com or . net registry agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business. consensus policies . our registry agreements with icann require us to implement consensus policies and temporary policies. icann could adopt consensus policies or temporary policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of .com , .net and our other gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. such consensus policies or temporary policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. as an example, icann has adopted a consensus policy that requires verisign to receive and display thick whois data for .com and . net , although that policy is scheduled to be reviewed by icann. in addition, icann has adopted an interim consensus policy that establishes temporary requirements for registry operators and registrars regarding the collection, display and disclosure of thick whois data pending icann's establishment of a permanent consensus policy. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these policies as well as laws and regulations, such as general data protection regulation ( gdpr ), regarding personal information and data privacy, such as domestic and various foreign privacy regimes, could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. technical standards and icann processes. our registry agreements with icann require verisign to implement and comply with various technical standards and specifications published by the internet engineering task force ( ietf ). icann could impose requirements on us through changes to these ietf standards that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. any such changes to the ietf standards could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, under 11 amendment 35, we have agreed to continue to operate the . com tld in a content-neutral manner and to work within icann processes to promote the development of content-neutral policies for the operation of the dns and under the proposed loi, we have agreed to work with the icann community to develop certain best practices and other commitments for the security, stability and resiliency of the dns and the internet. such policies and processes could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation. legal challenges . our registry agreements have faced, and could face in the future, challenges, including possible legal challenges, resulting from our activities or the activities of icann, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the u.s. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations in the u.s. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. for example, the government of china has indicated that it will issue, and in some instances has begun to issue, new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that impose additional costs on, and risks to, our provision of registry services in china and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in china. in addition to registry operators, some of these regulations also require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each tld whose domain name registrations they intend to sell directly to registrants. any failure to obtain the required licenses, or to comply with any license requirements or any updates thereto, by us or our registrars could impact our current and future business in china. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, online gambling, counterfeit goods, and intellectual property violations such as cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cybersecurity may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. to conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and receive data originating from different jurisdictions, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the united states and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. the scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. for example, the european union's gdpr, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of european union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and significant penalties, became effective in may 2018. other countries and other states have enacted or are enacting data localization laws regulating or limiting data collection, storage and transfer as well as granting new rights to data subjects. all of these evolving compliance and operational requirements can impose significant costs for us that are likely to increase over time. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that federal, state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified or enforced using new or novel legal theories, and new laws may be enacted in the future. in addition, as we continue to launch and market our idn gtlds and increase our marketing efforts of our other tlds in foreign countries, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, expose us to liability, penalties or fines, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such laws could impede growth of, or result in a decline in, domain name registrations. undetected or unknown defects in our systems or services, security breaches including from vulnerabilities, defects in the technologies, components, and services in our supply chain, and distributed denial of service ( ddos ) attacks could expose us to liability and materially harm our business and reputation. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in service outages or disruptions, compromised customer data, including dns data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security vulnerabilities and breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet 12 contracted service level obligations, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. in addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. we retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy, as well as fulfilling our obligations as the registry operator for .com and .net, that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure, that we continue to meet our service level agreements and that we maintain the public's trust in the internet services that we provide. the company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. these forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. in addition, these forms of attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target's supply chain or operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. in addition to external threats, we may be subject to insider threats, including those from third-party suppliers such as consultants and advisors, saas providers, hardware, software, and network systems manufacturers, and other outside vendors, or from current or former contractors or employees; these threats can be realized from intentional or unintentional actions. the shared registration system, the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone maintainer system, the tld name servers and the tld zone files that we operate are critical to our operations. therefore, attacks against third-party suppliers that provide services to our operations could also impact our infrastructure. despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, that was previously disclosed in our quarterly report on form 10-q for the quarter ended september 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, disruptions resulting from destructive malware, hardware or enabling software defects, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of, or jeopardize the security of, information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, fail to meet contracted service level obligations, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business or cause financial losses that are either not insured against or not fully covered through any insurance that we maintain. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. we use externally developed technology, systems and services including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including, without limitation, compute, storage, encryption and authentication, back-office support, and other functions. while we have developed operational policies and procedures to reduce the impact of security vulnerabilities in system components, as well as at any vendors where company data is stored or processed, such measures cannot provide absolute security. while we strive to remediate known vulnerabilities on a timely basis, such vulnerabilities could be exploited before our remediation is effective and if so, could cause systems and service interruptions, data loss and other damages any of which could be materially harmful to our business. vulnerabilities in, and exploits leading to, breaches of our or our vendors' technology, systems or services could expose us or our customers to a risk of outages, loss or misuse of company data, including but not limited to sensitive personal information. additionally, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to ddos attacks. recent attacks have demonstrated that ddos attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have an ability to widely disrupt internet services. particularly since 2016, the size of ddos attacks has grown rapidly, and we have successfully mitigated ddos attacks during this time frame that are significantly larger than those we have historically experienced. while we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations, and generally impede our ability to provide reliable service to our customers and the broader internet community. we have historically incurred, and will continue to incur, significant costs to enable our infrastructure to process levels of attack traffic that are significant multiples of our normal transaction volume. further, we are in the process of transitioning our security services customer contracts to neustar. we will operate our ddos protection services during this transition period. these ddos protection services share some of the infrastructure used to protect our registry services business. therefore the operation of such services might expose our critical infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by ddos attacks against those customers, in addition to any attacks directed specifically against us and our networks. any new technologies or services used to replace or enhance existing or future ddos and other attack mitigation capabilities may introduce risk that may not exist today in those environments and, if security incidents occur associated with those new technologies or services, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our 13 contracted service level obligations, and generally impede our ability to provide reliable service to our customers and the broader internet community. changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. the internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector, including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as icann, governments, including the u.s. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations. role of the u.s. government . in the fourth quarter of 2016, the u.s. government completed a transition to the multi-stakeholder community of the historical role played by the national telecommunications and information administration ( ntia ) in the coordination of the dns. changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. for example, icann has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance accountability through a new organization called the empowered community, which is comprised of a cross section of stakeholders. icann or the empowered community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business. by completing the transition discussed above, the u.s. government through the ntia has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the dns including the iana functions and the root zone. there can be no assurance that the removal of the u.s. government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business. role of icann . icann plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. icann is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. if icann or the empowered community fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. additionally, the empowered community could adversely impact icann, which could negatively impact its ability to coordinate the multi-stakeholder system of governance, or negatively affect our interests. also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of icann, the empowered community or us. role of foreign governments . some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned icann's role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. additionally, the role of icann's governmental advisory committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, and give governments more control of certain aspects of internet governance. some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. changes to the roles that foreign governments play in internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. we face risks from our operation of two root zone servers and performance of the root zone maintainer functions under the rzma. we operate two of the 13 root zone servers. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and dns configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the tlds. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. we also have an important operational role in support of a key iana function as the root zone maintainer. in this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators under an agreement with icann, the root zone maintainer service agreement ( rzma ). as we perform the root zone maintainer services under the rzma, we may be subject to significant claims challenging the agreement or our performance under the agreement, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification or insurance for, such claims. additionally, over 1,200 new gtlds have already been delegated into the root zone in the current round of new gtlds. icann plans on offering a subsequent round of new gtlds, the timing of which remains uncertain. we believe there are potential security and stability issues that could involve the root zone and at other levels of the dns from the deployment of the new gtlds that should have been addressed before any new gtlds were delegated, and despite our and others' efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by icann sufficiently, if at all. for example, domain name collisions have been reported to icann, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing and other cyber-attacks. it is anticipated that as additional new gtlds are delegated now, or in subsequent rounds, more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur. 14 the evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names. domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers and businesses to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity for many years. the growth of technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. these changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for personal, commercial and investment reasons. factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names at an increased price. adverse changes in the resale value of domain names, changes in the business models for such domain name registrars and registrants, or other factors, including regulations limiting the resale of domain names, could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our tlds. such a resulting decrease in demand and/or renewal rates could negatively impact the volume of new domain name registrations, our renewal rates and our associated revenue growth. some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity. currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser, the use of an app on their smart phone or mobile device, the use of a voice recognition technology such as alexa, cortana, google assistant, or siri, or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet users' preferences or practices shift away from recognizing and relying on web addresses for navigation through the use of new and existing technologies; (iii) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content; (iv) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of domain names to develop and protect their online identity; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third-level domains or alternate identifiers, such as identifiers from social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names in our tlds could decrease. this may trigger current or prospective customers and parties in our target markets to reevaluate their need for registration or renewal of domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenues through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google, yahoo!, baidu and bing, have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. for example, according to published reports, google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites and provide less pay-per-click compensation for certain types of websites. this has reportedly made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. if any of the above factors negatively impact the renewal of domain names or the demand for new domain names, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. many of our markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business or our prospects could be harmed. we seek to serve many new, developing and emerging markets in foreign countries to grow our business. these markets are rapidly evolving, and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance or adoption of our services in these markets include the following: regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption; market acceptance and adoption of substitute products and services that enable online presence without a domain, including social media, e-commerce platforms, website builders and mobile applications; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices, and in particular, the use of mobile applications as the primary engagement mechanism for navigating the internet; increasing cyber threats; government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, data security or data localization, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet; 15 the maturity and depth of the sales channels within developing and emerging markets and their ability and motivation to establish and support sales for domain names; preference by markets for the use of their own country's cctlds as a substitute or alternative to our tlds; and increased acceptance and use of new gtlds as substitutes for established gtlds. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us to continually improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers' and internet users' preferences and practices, or potentially launch entirely new products and services such as new gtlds in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish an online presence. we have been designated as the registry operator for certain new gtlds including certain idn gtlds; however, there is no guarantee that such new gtlds will be as or more successful than the new gtlds obtained by our competitors. for example, some of the new gtlds, including our new gtlds, may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gtlds and developers of desktop and mobile device software may be slow to adopt standards or support these gtlds, even if demand for such products is strong. this is particularly true for idn gtlds, but applies to conventional gtlds as well. as a result of these challenges, it is possible that resolution of domain names within some of these new gtlds may be blocked within certain state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability on the internet. see the competition section in part i, item 1 for further information. we must establish and maintain strong relationships with registrars and their resellers to maintain their focus on marketing our products and services otherwise our business could be harmed. all of our domain name registrations occur through registrars. registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names as well as their own associated offerings. consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. with the introduction of new gtlds, many of our registrars have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. our registrars and resellers sell domain name registrations of other competing registries, including other new gtlds, and some also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, as well as other services. therefore, our registrars and resellers may be more motivated to sell to registrants to whom they can also market their own services. to the extent that registrars and their resellers focus more on selling and supporting their services and less on the registration and renewal of domain names in our tlds, our revenues could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. if we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling registrations of domain names in our tlds as opposed to other competing tlds, including the new gtlds, or their own services, our business could be harmed. 16 if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors; computer viruses, software defects, or hardware defects, both in our systems and those of our service providers and suppliers; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, unintentional mistakes or errors, and other events beyond our control; risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; interconnection and internet routing system vulnerabilities; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any vulnerability, damage or interruption. most of the computing infrastructure for our shared registration system is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our owned data centers. in 2019, we began transitioning some of our data center operations to a leased data center facility. we are also updating our network architecture in several of our new and existing data centers. to the extent our data center facilities or the updated network architecture do not operate as expected, we could experience service interruptions or outages which could harm our business. also, to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions. in addition, our services depend on the secure and efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our shared registration system residing in our secure data centers. these connections depend upon the secure and efficient operation of internet service providers, internet exchange point operators, and internet backbone service providers. such providers have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control and may continue to encounter problems and outages. in addition, if the providers that our connections depend upon do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the dns through their networks, our business could be harmed. a failure in the operation or update of the root zone servers, the root zone file, the root zone management system, the tld name servers, or the tld zone files that we operate, including, for example, our operation of the .gov registry, or other network functions, could result in a dns resolution or other service outage or degradation; the deletion of one or more tlds from the internet; the deletion of one or more second-level domain names from the internet for a period of time; or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. a failure in the operation or update of the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could result in similar consequences. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register or maintain domain names for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. any of these problems or outages could create potential liability and exposure, including from a failure to meet our service level agreements in our registry agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation that could adversely affect the market's perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the reliability of our services or call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social, public health, and political conditions. an unfavorable global market, economic, social and political environment has impacted or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers' or end-users' continued growth and development of their businesses, or their ability to maintain their businesses and continue as going concerns, which could affect demand for our products and services; 17 current and future demand for our services, including as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity and our associated ability to execute on any share repurchase plans; and our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations. in addition, to the extent that the market, economic, social, public health, and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many end-users of our products and services are concentrated, such as china, that may have a disproportionate negative impact on our business. our international operations subject our business to additional economic, legal, regulatory and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the u.s. our business operations in international markets has required, and will continue to require, significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could materially harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business internationally, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting their cctlds, which we do not operate; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts, and compliance with foreign laws; economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade policies and/or the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by the office of foreign assets control ( ofac ) of the u.s. department of the treasury; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; currency exchange rate fluctuations; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying end-user information, including for the purposes of complying with the verification requirements of certain countries and with the economic and trade sanctions programs administered by ofac; more stringent privacy and data localization policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with u.s. technology companies due to alleged u.s. government data collection policies. we rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally-developed technologies and related intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for an external party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same 18 extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to some of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents' scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the ietf. to the extent any of our patents are considered standards essential patents, in some cases we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms or otherwise be limited in our ability to assert such patents. we also license externally-developed technology that is used in some of our products and services to perform key functions. these externally-developed technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of, or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. some of the software and protocols used in our business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate verisign in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the verisign logo in all markets where verisign products and services are sold. in addition, in the u.s. and most other countries, word marks solely for tlds have currently not been successfully registered as trademarks. accordingly, we may not be able to fully realize or maintain the value of these intellectual property assets. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. we cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of other parties. the international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for external party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. an external party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits, audits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and unexpected judgments or excessive verdicts do occur. in addition, such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. adverse outcomes in lawsuits, audits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business, such as our ability 19 to operate the . web gtld, and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations could involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources from other matters. we continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. we explore possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the investment in, and the pursuit of, new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings, initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio, back-end registry services and idn gtlds. in addition, we have evaluated and are pursuing and will continue to evaluate and pursue acquisitions of tlds that are currently in operation and those that have not yet been awarded or delegated as long as they support our growth strategy. any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management's attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible regulatory scrutiny or third-party claims; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative; as well as damage to our reputation if we are unsuccessful in pursuing a strategic initiative. such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. we may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net, .name and other tlds, including required icann approval of new registry services for such tlds. if any new initiative requires icann review or icann determines that such a review is required, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. we operate in a unique, competitive and highly regulated environment, and we depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our senior management team and other key employees in this regard and otherwise. we periodically experience changes in our management team. if we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these key individuals as well as other highly skilled employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. for example, our service products are highly technical and require individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique platforms, operating systems and software development tools. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our income taxes. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our effective tax rates may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis because of a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, changes in tax laws that could adversely impact our income or non-income taxes or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. in accordance with u.s. gaap, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. for example, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded a net income tax benefit of $380.1 million. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. the organization for economic cooperation and development ( oecd ) has released plans to issue a final report by the end of 2020 that will provide a long-term, multilateral proposal on the taxation of the digital economy. if this proposal is ultimately agreed to and implemented by the member states, there could be significant modifications in the way multinational corporations are taxed. in addition, some international tax jurisdictions have, or may, independently of the oecd, enact new tax regimes aimed at income resulting from digital services. although we cannot predict the nature or outcome of such changes or the likelihood of such proposals being adopted legislatively throughout the world and tax treaties being modified 20 accordingly, any or all of these changes in tax policy for the digital economy could increase our taxes and adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flow. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2019, we had $1.23 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $709.9 million was invested in marketable securities. the cash equivalents and marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by financial market credit and liquidity events. if the global credit or liquidity market deteriorates or other events negatively impact the market for u.s. treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we own the land and building in reston, virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in dulles, virginia and new castle, delaware, may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, easements or other encumbrances, a government exercising its right of eminent domain, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements or repairs; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for an outside party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least 25% in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing; vacancies and newly created directorships on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by a majority of directors then in office; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, which generally means a person who, together with its affiliates owns, or within the last three years has owned, 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. 21 our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our indebtedness. we have a significant amount of outstanding debt, and we periodically reassess our capital structure and may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our substantial indebtedness, including any future indebtedness, requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations or to arrange alternative liquidity sources to make principal and interest payments, when due, or to repurchase or settle our debt, if triggered, by certain corporate events, or certain events of default. it could also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, or make required capital expenditures and investments in our business; make it difficult or more expensive to refinance our debt or obtain new debt; trigger an event of default; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. some of our debt contains covenants which may limit our operating flexibility, including restrictions on share repurchases, dividends, prepayment or repurchase of debt, acquisitions, disposing of assets, if we do not continue to meet certain financial ratios. any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency, which could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. the occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 33 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity the fixed income securities in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2019 , we had $1.04 billion of fixed income securities, which consisted of u.s. treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. a hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business in several countries and transact in multiple foreign currencies. the functional currency for all of our international subsidiaries is the u.s. dollar. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2019 , we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $26.3 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market values of our senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. as of december 31, 2019 , the fair values of the senior notes issued in 2013, 2015 and 2017 were $762.8 million , $552.3 million , and $581.9 million , respectively, based on available market information from public data sources. 33quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk equity investments we invest in debt and equity securities of technology companies for strategic business purposes. some of these companies may be publicly traded and have highly volatile share prices. we value these public company investments using the closing market value for the last day of each month. these investments are subject to market price volatility. we reflect these investments on our balance sheet at their market value, with the unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in the accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) component of stockholders equity. in most instances, we invest in the equity and debt securities of private companies for which there is no public market, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. these companies are typically in the early stage of development and are expected to incur substantial losses in the near-term. therefore, these companies may never become publicly traded. even if they do, an active trading market for their securities may never develop and we may never realize any return on these investments. in 2003, 2002 and 2001, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non-public equity investments was other-than-temporary and we recognized net impairment losses totaling $16.5 million, $162.5 million and $87.0 million, respectively. due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, and in light of current stock market conditions, we may incur future losses on the sale or impairment of our investments. we do not currently hedge against equity price changes. interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our non-strategic investment activities is to preserve principal while at the same time maximizing the income we receive from our investments without significantly increasing risk. some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to market risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at december 31, 2003, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. to minimize this risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, market auction securities, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. in addition, we generally invest in relatively short-term securities. as of december 31, 2003, 58% of our non-strategic investments mature in less than one year. the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and investments that are subject to market risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2003. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to market risk. maturing in total estimated fair value six months or less six months to one year more than one year (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents $ 159,454 $ $ $ 159,454 $ 159,459 weighted-average interest rate 1.24 % included in short-term investments $ 63,851 $ 67,423 $ 194,069 $ 325,343 $ 325,680 weighted-average interest rate 1.50 % 1.79 % 1.76 % included in restricted cash $ $ $ 18,371 $ 18,371 $ 18,371 weighted-average interest rate 1.66 % foreign currency management and derivative instruments we are increasingly exposed to currency risk as we continue to expand our international operations. we transact business in multiple foreign currencies. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated a foreign currency risk 59 table of contents management program, using forward currency contracts to eliminate, reduce, or transfer selected foreign currency risks that are related to the monetary assets and liabilities of our operations denominated in non-functional currencies and which could be identified and quantified. forward contracts are limited to durations of less than 12 months. at december 31, 2003, only non-functional currency balances were hedged. all derivatives were recorded at fair value on the balance sheet and in earnings at year end 2003. the primary business objective of this hedging program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. at december 31, 2003, we held a forward contract in a notional amount of $15 million to mitigate the impact of currency fluctuations for certain foreign operations. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in foreign exchange rates. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign contracts with high-quality financial institutions.quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk equity investments we invest in debt and equity securities of technology companies for investment purposes. in most instances, we invest in the equity and debt securities of private companies for which there is no public market, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. these companies are typically in the early stage of development and are expected to incur substantial losses in the near-term. therefore, these companies may never become publicly traded. even if they do, an active trading market for their securities may never develop and we may never realize any return on these investments. in 2004, 2003 and 2002, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non-public equity investments was other-than-temporary and we recognized net impairment losses totaling $8.2 million, $16.5 million, and $162.5 million, respectively. due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, and in light of current stock market conditions, we may incur future losses on the sale or impairment of our investments. interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our cash management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and driving after-tax returns. some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to interest rate risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. to minimize interest rate risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents and short-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2004, 38% of our cash investments mature in less than one year. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at december 31, 2004, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and short-term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2004. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to interest rate risk. maturing in total estimated fair value six months or less six months to one year more than one year (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents $ 50,190 $ $ $ 50,190 $ 50,190 weighted-average interest rate 2.13 % included in short-term investments $ 141,537 $ 26,475 $ 242,849 $ 410,861 $ 406,784 weighted-average interest rate 3.36 % 4.30 % 3.35 % included in restricted cash $ $ $ 51,518 $ 51,518 $ 51,518 weighted-average interest rate 1.69 % foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. as we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated a foreign currency risk management program designed to mitigate foreign exchange 59 table of contents risks associated with the monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this hedging program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. at december 31, 2004, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling approximately $54.5 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. all hedge contracts are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with high-quality financial institutions.risk factors 15 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k. our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our security and communications services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; volume of domain name registrations and customer renewals in our registry services business; the mix of all our services sold during a period; our success in marketing and market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services; continued development of our direct and indirect distribution channels for our security services and communications services (including our content services), both in the u.s. and abroad; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by enterprise customers; our success in assimilating the operations, products, services and personnel of any acquired businesses; the seasonal fluctuations in consumer use of communications services, including our content services; the timing and execution of individual customer contracts, particularly large contracts; the impact of price changes in our communications services and security services or our competitors products and services; the impact of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants; and general economic and market conditions as well as economic and market conditions specific to the telecommunications and internet industries. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 15 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected by the uncertain geopolitical environment and unfavorable economic and market conditions. adverse economic conditions worldwide have contributed to downturns in the telecommunications and technology industries in the past and could impact our business in the future, resulting in: reduced demand for our services as a result of a decrease in information technology and telecommunications spending by our customers; increased price competition for our products and services; and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues. recent political turmoil in many parts of the world, including terrorist and military actions, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. if the economic and market conditions in the united states and globally do not continue to improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. our limited operating history under our current business structure may result in significant fluctuations of our financial results. we have acquired many companies, a number of which operated in different businesses from our then-current business. therefore, we have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our consolidated business and prospects. our success will depend on many factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the successful integration of acquired companies; the use of the internet and other internet protocol, or ip, networks for electronic commerce and communications; the extent to which digital certificates and domain names are used for electronic commerce or communications; growth in the number of web sites; growth in wireless networks and communications; growth in demand for our services; the continued evolution of electronic and mobile commerce as a viable means of conducting business; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of electronic commerce and communications over the internet and other ip networks; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the significant lead times before a new product or service begins generating revenues; the varying rates at which telecommunications companies, telephony resellers and internet service providers use our services; the success in marketing and overall demand for our content services to consumers and businesses; the loss of customers through industry consolidation, or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; and our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships. 16 table of contents to address these risks we must, among other things: successfully market our services to new and existing customers; attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; respond to competitive developments; successfully introduce new services; and successfully introduce enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards and changing market conditions. we have faced difficulties assimilating, and may incur costs associated with, acquisitions. we made several acquisitions in the last five years and will pursue additional acquisitions in the future. we have experienced difficulty in, and in the future may face difficulties, integrating the personnel, products, technologies or operations of companies we acquire. assimilating acquired businesses involves a number of other risks, including, but not limited to: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; the potential impairment of relationships with our employees, customers and strategic partners; the need to manage more geographically-dispersed operations, such as our offices in the states of kansas, illinois, massachusetts, pennsylvania, rhode island, texas, virginia, and washington, and globally in australia, europe, india, japan, south africa and south america; greater than expected costs and/or lower than expected revenues and the assumption of unknown liabilities. the diversion of management attention from our other businesses in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; the inability to retain the key employees of the acquired businesses; adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; our inability to incorporate acquired technologies successfully into our operations infrastructure; the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; the potential incompatibility of business cultures; additional regulatory requirements; any perceived adverse changes in business focus; entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; the need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, or issue equity securities, which may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders; and the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. if we are unable to successfully address any of these risks for future acquisitions, our business could be harmed. additionally, there is risk that we may incur additional expenses associated with an impairment of a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions for acquisitions. under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and to evaluate other intangible assets as events or circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. these evaluations could result in further impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. 17 table of contents the expansion of our international operations subjects our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. international revenues accounted for approximately 37% of our total revenues for the year ended december 31, 2005. we intend to expand our international operations and international sales and marketing activities. for example, we expect to expand our operations and marketing activities throughout asia, europe, latin america and south america. we currently have facilities and over 550 employees in germany. expansion in these international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our other services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into international markets. failure to do so could harm our business. in addition, there are risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability and compliance with foreign laws; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as our international revenues from europe, south africa, japan, south america and australia are not denominated in u.s. dollars; potential problems associated with adapting our content services to technical conditions existing in different countries; the necessity of developing foreign language portals and products for our content services; difficulty of authenticating customer information for digital certificates and other purposes; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting american interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our failure to manage past and future growth in our business could harm our business. between december 31, 1995 and december 31, 2005, we grew from 26 to 4,076 employees. this was achieved through internal growth, as well as acquisitions. during this time period, we opened new sales offices and significantly expanded our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. to successfully manage past growth and any future growth, we will need to continue to implement additional management information systems, continue the development of our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls and maintain close coordination among our executive, engineering, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations organizations. any failure to manage growth effectively could harm our business. 18 table of contents the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. competition in security services . our security services are targeted at the rapidly evolving market for internet security services, including network security, authentication and validation, which enable secure electronic commerce and communications over wireline and wireless ip networks. the market for security services is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product and service introductions and other market activities of industry participants. principal competitors generally fall within one of the following categories: (1) companies such as rsa security, inc. and entrust technologies, which offer software applications and related digital certificate products that customers operate themselves; (2) companies such as geotrust and digital signature trust company (a subsidiary of identrus) that primarily offer digital certificate and certification authority, or ca, related services; and (3) companies focused on providing a bundled offering of products and services such as cybertrust. we also experience competition from a number of smaller companies, and we believe that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. furthermore, netscape and microsoft have introduced software products that enable the issuance and management of digital certificates, and we believe that other companies could introduce similar products. in addition, browser companies that embed our interface technologies or otherwise feature them as a provider of digital certificate products and services in their web browsers or on their web sites could also promote our competitors or charge us substantial fees for promotions in the future. competition in managed security services . consulting companies or professional services groups of other companies with internet expertise are current or potential competitors to our managed security services. these companies include large systems integrators and consulting firms, such as accenture, ibm global services, getronics and lucent netcare. we also compete with security product companies that offer managed security services in addition to other security services, such as symantec and iss, as well as a number of providers such as cybertrust and counterpane that offer managed security services. telecommunications providers, such as mci which acquired netsec, a provider of managed security services, are also potential competitors. in addition, we compete with some companies that have developed products that automate the management of ip addresses and name maps throughout enterprise-wide intranets, and with companies with internally developed systems integration efforts. competition in communications services. the market for communications services is extremely competitive and subject to significant pricing pressure. competition in this area arises from two primary sources. incumbent carriers provide competing in-house services in their respective regions. in addition, we face direct competition from national, unregulated companies, including syniverse technologies, telcordia, neustar and other carriers such as southern new england telephone diversified group, a unit of at&amp;t. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third party providers, such as verisign, and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in commerce services . our wireless billing and payment services also are subject to competition from providers, such as comverse, amdocs, convergys corporation and boston communications group. we are also aware of major internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are or may in the future be focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that may compete directly with ours. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third party providers such as verisign and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in content services. the market for content services is extremely competitive. competitors include developers of content and entertainment products and services in a variety of domestic and international 19 table of contents markets, such as jamdat mobile, lanetro zed, infospace, itouch, wisdom entertainment, arvato mobile, monstermob, motricity and buongiorno/vitaminic. this business also faces competition from mobile network operators such as cingular, verizon wireless, sprint, t-mobile, vodafone, o 2 , orange, e-plus and telef&oacute;nica, as well as internet portal operators such as yahoo!, aol, t-online and google. additional competitors are handset manufacturers such as nokia and software providers such as microsoft and apple. as the market for wireless data, including information and entertainment data, matures, new categories of competitors, such as mobile phone companies, broadcasters, music publishers, other content providers or others have begun to develop competing products or services. competition in registry services. icann has introduced several registry service providers for new gtlds that directly compete with the services we provide for the .com and .net gtlds, as well as with the cctlds offered by us. the gtlds .biz and .info were launched in 2001, the gtlds .name, .pro, .aero, .museum and .coop were launched in 2002 and 2003, and the gtld .mobi was launched in 2005. domain names registrations and other services within these gtlds are available through icann accredited registrars. in addition, we currently face competition from the over 240 cctld registry operators who compete directly for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolutions and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are ultradns, neulevel, affilias, register.com and tucows.com. competition in intelligent supply chain services. there are a number of companies that provide intelligent supply chain services. for point-of-sale data, we face competition from iri and ac nielsen, as well as smaller software companies. for consulting services, we face competition from traditional consulting firms. competition in real-time publisher services . we face competition from various smaller companies providing similar services. competition in digital brand management services. we face competition from companies providing services similar to some of our digital brand management services. in the monitoring services, registration and domain name asset management area of our business, our competition comes primarily from icann accredited registrars and various smaller companies providing similar services. several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, the demand for our products and services might be substantially reduced and the ability to distribute our products successfully and the utilization of our services would be substantially diminished. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase the competitive pressure. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our security services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. 20 table of contents our communications services business depends in part on the acceptance of our ss7 network and the telecommunications industry continuing use of ss7 technology. our future growth in our communications services business depends, in part, on the commercial success and reliability of our ss7 network. our ss7 network is a vital component of our intelligent network services and has been a significant source of revenues for our communications services group. our communications services business will suffer if our target customers do not use our ss7 network. our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced ss7-based services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our particular ss7 network solution or continue to use our ss7 network. in the future, we may not be successful in marketing our ss7 network or any new or enhanced services. the inability of our customers to successfully implement our signaling and network services with their existing systems could adversely affect our business. significant technical challenges exist in our signaling and network services business because many of our customers: purchase and implement ss7 network services in phases; deploy ss7 connectivity across a variety of telecommunication switches and routes; and integrate our ss7 network with a number of legacy systems, third-party software applications and engineering tools. customer implementation currently requires participation by our order management and our engineering and operations groups, each of which has limited resources. some customers may also require us to develop costly customized features or capabilities, which increase our costs and consume a disproportionate share of our limited customer service and support resources. also, we typically charge one-time flat rate fees for initially connecting a customer to our ss7 network and a monthly recurring flat rate fee after the connection is established. if new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our engineering service support, we may experience reduced operating margins. our customers ability to deploy our network services to their own customers and integrate them successfully within their systems depends on our customers capabilities and the complexity involved. difficulty in deploying those services could reduce our operating margins due to increased customer support and could cause potential delays in recognizing revenues until the services are implemented. our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our communications services at desired pricing levels and industry consolidation could adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. the telecommunications industry is characterized by significant price competition. competition and industry consolidation in our communications services could result in significant pricing pressure and an erosion in our market share. pricing pressure from competition could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. for example, our competitors may provide customers with reduced communications costs for internet access or private network services, reducing the overall cost of services and significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. we would need to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of our customers, generating higher revenues from enhanced services or reducing our costs, and we may not be able to do so successfully. we believe that the business of providing network connectivity and related network services will see increased consolidation in the future. consolidation could decrease selling prices and increase competition in these industries, which could erode our market share, revenues and operating margins in our communications services group. consolidation in the telecommunications industry has led to the merging of many companies, including at&amp;t wireless, mci, nextel and price communications, customers of our communications services group. our business could be harmed if these mergers result in the loss of customers 21 table of contents by our communications services group. furthermore, customers may choose to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services thereby reducing the demand for technologies and services we offer which could harm our business. our content services business depends on agreements with many different third parties, including wireless carriers, and content providers. if these agreements are terminated or not renewed, or are amended to require us to change the way our content services are offered to customers, our business could be harmed. our content services business depends on our ability to enter into and maintain agreements with many different third parties including: wireless carriers and other mobile phone service providers, upon which this business is highly dependent for billing its customers; and developers, music publishers and other providers of content, upon which this business is substantially dependent for content such as ringtones and games. these agreements are typically for a short term, or are otherwise terminable upon short notice, and in the case of agreements with carriers, other mobile phone service providers and content developers, are non-exclusive. if these third parties reduce their commitment to us, terminate their agreements with us or enter into similar agreements with our competitors, our content services business could be materially harmed. for example, because we depend on wireless carriers to bill customers for our services, a loss of any of these relationships, or our failure to enter into new relationships with additional wireless carriers on commercially reasonable terms, could prevent us from billing and receiving revenues from existing and new customers. some wireless carriers have implemented more detailed enrollment procedures before their customers can purchase content services such as those we offer. similar enrollment procedures or other requirements affecting content services may be adopted by other wireless carriers or by trade associations seeking to establish industry-wide standards, and could adversely affect subscriber growth and renewal rates in our content services business. our content services business is dependent on third parties offering attractive content and technology on acceptable terms. only some of the content used in our content services business is developed internally. we also receive content, such as ringtones, games and logos from third parties. if the market for mobile entertainment and information continues to grow, content providers might try to raise their prices. some providers insist on charging fixed fees for their content regardless of revenues, so if we fail to achieve anticipated revenues, we would achieve lower margins for our content services. there is no assurance that we will be able to timely purchase content having the requisite quality in the future and on commercially reasonable terms. should we be unable to acquire attractive content from third parties and on acceptable terms, this could adversely affect our content services business. our customer subscription agreements for our content services are typically cancelable and our business could be harmed if we fail to retain current customers or if we fail to obtain significant numbers of new customers to replace customers who cancel or fail to renew. our content services are typically sold as fixed weekly or monthly subscriptions. our customers for these services may cancel their subscriptions for our service at the end of each service period and in fact, many customers elect to do so. we have limited historical data with respect to rates of customer subscription renewals, so we cannot accurately predict customer renewal rates. our customers subscription and renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including customer dissatisfaction with the service, pricing pressure, changes in preferences and trends, competitive services, adverse coverage in the news media, changes in the way we advertise our services or other reasons. if our customers cancel or fail to renew their subscriptions for our content services or if we fail to obtain significant numbers of new customers to replace customers who cancel or fail to renew, our revenue could decline and our content services business will suffer. 22 table of contents our business depends on the continued growth of the internet and adoption and continued use of ip networks. our future success depends, in part, on continued growth in the use of the internet and ip networks. if the use of, and interest in, the internet and ip networks does not grow, our business would be harmed. to date, many businesses and consumers have been deterred from utilizing the internet and ip networks for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: potentially inadequate development of network infrastructure; security concerns, particularly for online commerce, including the potential for merchant or user impersonation and fraud or theft of stored data and information communicated over ip networks; privacy concerns, including the potential for third parties to obtain personally identifiable information about users or to disclose or sell data without notice to or the consent of such users; other security concerns such as attacks on popular web sites by hackers ; inconsistent quality of service; inability to integrate business applications on ip networks; the need to operate with multiple and frequently incompatible products; limited bandwidth access; and government regulation. the widespread acceptance of the internet and ip networks will require a broad acceptance of new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. organizations that already have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant to adopt new methods. also, individuals with established patterns of purchasing goods and services and effecting payments may be reluctant to change. a number of states, as well as the u.s. congress, have been considering various initiatives that could permit sales and use taxes on internet sales. if any of these initiatives are adopted, it could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and therefore hinder the growth in the use of the internet and ip networks, which could harm our business. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could suffer. we target our security services at the market for trusted and secure electronic commerce and communications over ip and other networks. our communications services group is targeting the consumer market for content services. our information services business unit is developing managed services designed to work with the epcglobal network and radio frequency identification ( rfid ), technology, point-of-sale data services and real-time publisher services. these are rapidly evolving markets that may not continue to grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile handsets; demand for supply chain information services, including acceptance of rfid technology, the epcglobal network and point-of-sale data services; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting electronic commerce and communications over ip networks. 23 table of contents if the market for electronic commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business would be materially harmed. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. the growth and development of the internet has led to new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws to the internet and wireless communications. application of these laws can be unclear. the costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business. for example, recent laws include those designed to restrict the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions or obligations for on-line services when dealing with minors. such legislation may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the emerging nature of the internet, other communication networks, content, digital certificate, and domain name registration markets, and their rapid evolution, require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. in particular, the market for entertainment and information is characterized by changing technology, developing industry standards, changing customer preferences and trends (which also vary from country to country), and the constant introduction of new products and services. in order to remain competitive, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences. when entertainment products are placed on the market, it is difficult to predict whether they will become popular. the communications network services industry is also characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. significant technological changes could make our technologies obsolete and other changes in our markets, particularly content, could result in some of our other products and services losing market share. accordingly, we must continually improve the responsiveness, reliability and features of our services and develop new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs in our target markets. for example, we sell our ss7 network services primarily to traditional telecommunications companies that rely on traditional voice networks. many emerging companies are providing convergent internet protocol-based network services. our future success could also depend upon our ability to provide products and services to these internet protocol-based telephony providers, particularly if ip-based telephony becomes widely accepted. we cannot assure that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. new products and services developed or introduced by us may not result in any significant revenues. we must commit significant resources to develop new products and services before knowing whether our investments will result in products and services the market will accept. the success of new products and services 24 table of contents depends on several factors, including proper new definition and timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. for example, our selection in january 2004 by epcglobal, a not-for-profit standards organization, to operate the object naming service as the root directory for the epcglobal network, may not increase our revenues in the foreseeable future. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product and service opportunities, develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products and services, or that products, services and technologies developed by others will not render our products, services or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. our inability to successfully market new products and services may harm our business. issues arising from our agreements with icann and the department of commerce could harm our registry business. the department of commerce, or doc, has adopted a plan for a phased transition of the doc responsibilities for the domain name system to the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers, or icann. as part of this transition, our registry agreement with icann was replaced by three new agreements on may 25, 2001, one for .com , one for .net and one for .org . the term of the .com registry agreement extends until november 10, 2007 with a 4-year renewal option. the .net registry services were subject to a competitive bidding process administered by icann. our bid was determined by the outside evaluators selected by icann to be the top bid and verisign and icann have executed a new .net registry agreement that extends until september 30, 2011. the .org registry agreement terminated on december 31, 2002, and the .org registry services were transitioned to a new registry operator selected by icann during 2003. we face risks from this transition to icann, which include the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to our role as the registry operator of the .com and .net top-level domains or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans; the doc or icann could terminate our agreements to be the registry for the .com or .net gtlds if they find that we are in violation of our agreements with them; if our agreements to be the registry for the .com or .net top-level domains are terminated, it could have an adverse impact on our business; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; the doc could revoke its recognition of icann, as a result of which the doc would take the place of icann for purposes of the various agreements described above, and could take actions that are harmful to us; the u.s. government could refuse to transfer certain responsibilities for domain name system administration to icann due to security, stability or other reasons, resulting in fragmentation or other instability in domain name system administration; and our registry business could face legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars. on august 27, 2004, we filed a lawsuit against icann in the superior court of the state of california county of los angeles. the lawsuit alleges that icann overstepped its contractual authority and improperly attempted to regulate our business in violation of icann charter and its agreements with us. we cannot predict the effect this lawsuit will have on our relationship with icann. 25 table of contents challenges to ongoing privatization of internet administration could harm our domain name registry business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including other domestic and foreign governmental authorities, to our role in the ongoing privatization of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; congress has held several hearings in which various issues about the domain name system and icann practices have been raised and congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in domain name system administration; and some foreign governments and governmental authorities have in the past disagreed with, and may in the future disagree with, the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the domain name system. these foreign governments or governmental authorities may take actions or adopt policies or programs that are harmful to our business. as a result of these challenges, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our domain name registry business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted. if we encounter system interruptions, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; computer viruses or software defects; and physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in mountain view, california and kawasaki, japan, both of which are susceptible to earthquakes, providence, rhode island; dulles, virginia; lacey, washington; overland park, kansas, melbourne, australia and berlin, hamburg and verl, germany. any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. in addition, our ability to issue digital certificates, our domain name registry services and other of our services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our domain name zone servers, the domain name root servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, which could harm our business. 26 table of contents if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain confidential customer information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. our domain name registry operations also depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to reasonably protect our systems against interruption, and potentially depend on protection by other registrars in the shared registration system. the root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware to our registry services operations. therefore, we may have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, and attacks by hackers or similar disruptive problems. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability and customers could be reluctant to use our services. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore, adversely affect the market perception of the security of electronic commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. the reliance of our network connectivity and interoperability services and content services on third-party communications infrastructure, hardware and software exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. the success of our network connectivity and interoperability services and content services depends on our network infrastructure, including the capacity leased from telecommunications suppliers. in particular, we rely on at&amp;t, mci, sprint and other telecommunications providers for leased long-haul and local loop transmission capacity. these companies provide the dedicated links that connect our network components to each other and to our customers. our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned by third parties that is used to connect telephone calls. specifically, we currently lease capacity from regional providers on six of the 16 mated pairs of ss7 signal transfer points that comprise our network. we have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure or whether or not those third parties will upgrade or improve their equipment. we depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our connections. if one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. in addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to the merging of many companies. these mergers may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could cause the length of time it takes to deliver the services that we use to increase significantly. our signaling and ss7 services rely on links, equipment and software provided to us from our vendors, the most important of which are gateway equipment and software from tekelec and agilent technologies, inc. we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase equipment from these vendors on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure product availability with these vendors, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative suppliers of products and services. capacity limits on our technology and network hardware and software may be difficult to project and we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems to meet increased use. if traffic from our telecommunication and content customers through our network increases, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology and network hardware and software. we may not be able to expand and 27 table of contents upgrade, in a timely manner, our systems and network hardware and software capabilities to accommodate increased traffic on our network. if we do not appropriately expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware and software, we may lose customers and revenues. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the 13 root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a volunteer basis. because of the importance to the functioning of the internet of these root zone servers, our registry services business could be harmed if these volunteer operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our registry services business could be harmed if any of these volunteer operators fail to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls. in the event and to the extent that icann is authorized to set policy with regard to an authoritative root server system, as provided in our registry agreement with icann, it is required to ensure that the authoritative root will point to the top-level domain zone servers designated by us. if icann does not do this, our business could be harmed. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop frequently contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. services offered by our internet services group rely on public key cryptography technology that may compromise our system security. services offered by our internet services group depend on public key cryptography technology. with public key cryptography technology, a user is given a public key and a private key, both of which are required to perform encryption and decryption operations. the security afforded by this technology depends on the integrity of a user private key and that it is not lost, stolen or otherwise compromised. the integrity of private keys also depends in part on the application of specific mathematical principles known as factoring. this integrity is predicated on the assumption that the factoring of large numbers into their prime number components is difficult. should an easy factoring method be developed, the security of encryption products utilizing public key cryptography technology would be reduced or eliminated. furthermore, any significant advance in techniques for attacking cryptographic systems could also render some or all of our existing pki services obsolete or unmarketable. if improved techniques for attacking cryptographic systems were ever developed, we would likely have to reissue digital certificates to some or all of our customers, which could damage our reputation and brand or otherwise harm our business. in the past there have been public announcements of the successful attack upon cryptographic keys of certain kinds and lengths and of the potential misappropriation of private keys and other activation data. this type of publicity could also hurt the public perception as to the safety of the public key cryptography technology included in our digital certificates. this negative public perception could harm our business. 28 table of contents some of our security services have lengthy sales and implementation cycles. we market many of our security services directly to large companies and government agencies and we market our communications services to large telecommunication carriers. the sale and implementation of our services to these entities typically involves a lengthy education process and a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources. this process is also subject to the risk of delays associated with customers internal budgeting and other procedures for approving large capital expenditures, deploying new technologies within their networks and testing and accepting new technologies that affect key operations. as a result, the sales and implementation cycles associated with certain of our services can be lengthy, potentially lasting from three to nine months. our quarterly and annual operating results could be materially harmed if orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized. failure of verisign affiliates to follow our security and trust practices or to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. we have licensed to verisign affiliates our processing center platform, which is designed to replicate our own secure data centers and allows the affiliate to offer back-end processing of pki services for enterprises. the verisign processing center platform provides a verisign affiliate with the knowledge and technology to offer pki services similar to those offered by us. it is critical to our business strategy that the facilities and infrastructure used in issuing and marketing digital certificates remain secure and we are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. although we provide the verisign affiliate with training in security and trust practices, network management and customer service and support, these practices are performed by the affiliate and are outside of our control. any failure of a verisign affiliate to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could result in negative publicity and therefore, adversely affect the market perception of the security of our services as well as the security of electronic commerce and communication over ip networks generally. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends on our internally developed technologies, patents and other intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the united states. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our business could suffer if we lost the rights to use these technologies. a third-party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of, or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could delay the introduction of our internet infrastructure services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. this could harm our business. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and which could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. in addition, we use content such as music, 29 table of contents games and logos, as part of our content services, and news content, as part of our real-time publisher service. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously and simultaneously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we must establish and maintain strategic and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our security services and communications services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, our ability to achieve future growth will also depend on our ability to continue to establish direct seller channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. failure of one or more of our strategic relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the u.s. and abroad. in addition, our stringent hiring practices for some of our key personnel, which consist of background checks into prospective employees criminal and financial histories, further limit the number of qualified persons for these positions. we have no employment agreements with any of our key executives that prevent them from leaving verisign at any time. in addition, we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. compliance with rules and regulations concerning corporate governance is costly and could harm our business. the sarbanes-oxley act mandates, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, sets stricter independence and 30 table of contents financial expertise standards for audit committee members and imposes increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers and chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. for example, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act requires companies to do a comprehensive and costly evaluation of their internal controls. in addition, the nasdaq stock market has adopted additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. these laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, and our compliance efforts have required significant management attention. it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have been required to accept reduced coverage and incur substantially higher costs to obtain the reduced level of coverage. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. regulations related to equity compensation will adversely affect our operating results and negatively impact our ability to attract and retain key personnel. since our inception, we have used stock options and other long-term equity incentives as a fundamental component of our employee compensation packages. we believe that stock options and other long-term equity incentives directly motivate our employees to maximize long-term stockholder value and, through the use of vesting, encourage employees to remain with verisign. the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) recently issued statement of financial accounting standards ( sfas ) no. 123r, share-based payment , which supersedes sfas no. 123, accounting for stock-based compensation, that will require us to record a charge to earnings for employee stock option grants beginning in the first quarter of 2006. this change will have a material, negative impact on our reported earnings. pro forma compensation expense disclosed in the current and prior years may not be indicative of future compensation expense under sfas no. 123r. recording a charge for employee stock options and the employee stock purchase plan under sfas no. 123 would have increased after tax charges by approximately $115.7 million, $136.8 million and $215.9 million for the years ended december 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, respectively. in addition, regulations adopted by the nasdaq stock market require stockholder approval for stock option plans and could make it more difficult for us to grant options to employees in the future. to the extent that new policies or regulations make it more difficult or expensive to grant options to employees, we may incur increased cash compensation costs or find it difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees, either of which could materially harm our business. we have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; we have a classified board of directors, with the board being divided into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms; vacancies on our board may be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders only by majority vote of the directors then in office; and special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president or the board, and not by our stockholders. 31 table of contents verisign has also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the plan, including the acquisition of 20% of verisign outstanding common stock by a person or group. each right entitles the holder, other than an acquiring person, to acquire shares of verisign common stock at a 50% discount to the then prevailing market price. verisign board of directors may redeem outstanding rights at any time prior to a person becoming an acquiring person, at a price of $0.001 per right. prior to such time, the terms of the rights may be amended by verisign board of directors without the approval of the holders of the rights. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk equity investments we invest in debt and equity securities of technology companies for investment purposes. in most instances, we invest in the equity and debt securities of private companies for which there is no public market, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. these companies are typically in the early stage of development and are expected to incur substantial losses in the near-term. therefore, these companies may never become publicly traded. even if they do, an active trading market for their securities may never develop and we may never realize any return on these investments. in 2005, 2004 and 2003, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non-public equity investments was other-than-temporary and we recognized impairments totaling $0.8 million, $12.6 million, and $17.0 million, respectively. due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, we may incur future losses on the sale or impairment of our investments. interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our cash management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and driving after-tax returns. some of the securities that we have invested in may be subject to interest rate risk. this means that a change in prevailing interest rates may cause the principal amount of the investment to fluctuate. for example, if we hold a security that was issued with a fixed interest rate at the then-prevailing rate and the prevailing interest rate later rises, the principal amount of our investment will probably decline in value. to minimize interest rate risk, we maintain our portfolio of cash equivalents, short-term investments and long-term investments in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2005, 45% of our investments subject to interest rate risk mature in less than one year. if market interest rates were to increase immediately and uniformly by 10 percent from levels at december 31, 2005, this would not materially change the fair market value of our portfolio. 62 table of contents the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and short-term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2005. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not subject to interest rate risk. maturing in total estimated fair value six months or less six months to one year more than one year (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents $ 26,253 $ $ $ 26,253 $ 26,246 weighted-average interest rate 2.55 % included in short-term investments $ 115,396 $ 62,577 $ 204,777 $ 382,750 $ 378,006 weighted-average interest rate 3.27 % 3.48 % 4.11 % included in restricted cash and investments $ $ $ 50,972 $ 50,972 $ 50,972 weighted-average interest rate 3.82 % foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. as we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated a foreign currency risk management program designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. at december 31, 2005, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling approximately $173.2 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. all forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with high-quality financial institutions. 63 table of contentsrisk factors 24 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k. note: the following risk factors are intended to be current as of the date of the filing of this report. our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our security and communications services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; volume of domain name registrations and customer renewals in our naming services business; the mix of all our services sold during a period; our success in marketing and market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services; continued development of our direct and indirect distribution channels for our security services and communications services, both in the u.s. and abroad; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by enterprise customers; our success in assimilating the operations, products, services and personnel of any acquired businesses; the timing and execution of individual customer contracts, particularly large contracts; the impact of price changes in our communications services and security services or our competitors products and services; the impact of statement of financial accounting standards no. 123r that will require us to record a charge to earnings for stock-based compensation; and general economic and market conditions as well as economic and market conditions specific to the telecommunications and internet industries. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. 24 table of contents due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our operating results may be adversely affected by the uncertain geopolitical environment and unfavorable economic and market conditions. adverse economic conditions worldwide have contributed to downturns in the telecommunications and technology industries in the past and could impact our business in the future, resulting in: reduced demand for our services as a result of a decrease in information technology and telecommunications spending by our customers; increased price competition for our products and services; and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues. recent political turmoil in many parts of the world, including terrorist and military actions, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. if the economic and market conditions in the united states and globally do not continue to improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. our limited operating history under our current business structure may result in significant fluctuations of our financial results. we have acquired many companies, a number of which operated in different businesses from our then-current business. therefore, we have only a limited operating history on which to base an evaluation of our consolidated business and prospects. our success will depend on many factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the successful integration of acquired companies; the use of the internet and other internet protocol ( ip ) networks for electronic commerce and communications; the extent to which digital certificates and domain names are used for electronic commerce or communications; growth in the number of web sites; growth in wireless networks and communications; growth in demand for our services; the continued evolution of electronic and mobile commerce as a viable means of conducting business; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of electronic commerce and communications over the internet and other ip networks; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the significant lead times before a new product or service begins generating revenues; the varying rates at which telecommunications companies, telephony resellers and internet service providers use our services; the success in marketing and overall demand for our content services to consumers and businesses; 25 table of contents the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; and our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships. to address these risks we must, among other things: successfully market our services to new and existing customers; attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; respond to competitive developments; successfully introduce new services; and successfully introduce enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards and changing market conditions. the internal review of our historical stock option granting practices, the restatement of certain of our historical consolidated financial statements, investigations by the sec and related events have had, and will continue to have, an adverse effect on us. the ad hoc group of independent directors of the board of directors conducted a review of our historical stock option granting practices for the period january 1998 through may 2006. during the course of the review, the ad hoc group identified stock option grants with incorrect measurement dates, without required documentation, or with initial grant dates and exercise prices that were subsequently modified. consequently, we have recorded additional non-cash stock-based compensation expense and related tax effects with regard to past stock option grants. in this form 10-k, we are restating our consolidated balance sheet as of december 31, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders equity, and cash flows for the years ended december 31, 2005 and 2004. we are restating the unaudited quarterly financial information and financial statements for interim periods of 2005, and the unaudited condensed financial statements for the three months ended march 31, 2006. details of the restatement and its underlying circumstances are discussed in the explanatory note in note 2 restatement of consolidated financial statements of the notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this report. as a result of the events described above, we have become subject to a number of significant risks, each of which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations, including: we are subject to significant pending civil litigation, including shareholder class action lawsuits and derivative claims made on behalf of us, the defense of which will require us to devote significant management attention and to incur significant legal expense and which litigation, if decided against us, could require us to pay substantial judgments, settlements or other penalties; we are subject to a continuing formal order of investigation from the sec and a grand jury subpoena from the u.s. attorney for the northern district of california which could require significant management time and attention and cause us to incur significant accounting and legal expense and which could require us to pay substantial fines or other penalties; we are subject to the risk of additional litigation and regulatory proceedings or actions; and many members of our senior management team and our board of directors have been and will be required to devote a significant amount of time on matters relating to the continuing formal order of investigation from the sec and a grand jury subpoena from the u.s. attorney for the northern district of california, remedial efforts and related litigation. 26 table of contents we have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. our management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2006 arising from a combination of internal control deficiencies in our stock administration policies and practices, as discussed in management report on internal control over financial reporting in item 9a. in addition, due to the identification of a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2006 our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. we will continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. we cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more significant deficiencies (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. through the twelve-month period ended december 31, 2006, we expended significant resources in connection with the section 404 process. in future periods, we will likely continue to expend substantial amounts in connection with the section 404 process and with ongoing evaluation of, and improvements and enhancements to, our internal control over financial reporting. these expenditures may make it difficult for us to control or reduce the growth of our general and administrative and other expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our securities. if our cost reduction and restructuring efforts are ineffective, our revenues and profitability may be hurt. in the first quarter of 2007, we have undertaken various cost reduction and restructuring activities that replaced our previous business unit structure with a functional organization consisting of a combined worldwide sales and services team and an integrated marketing and product development organization. the restructuring, impairment and other charges are estimated to be approximately $26.9 million in the first quarter of 2007; however, if we incur additional restructuring-related charges, our financial condition and results of operations may suffer. in addition, the cost reduction and restructuring activities may not produce the full efficiencies and benefits we expect or the efficiencies and benefits might be delayed. there can be no assurance that these efforts, as well as any potential future cost reduction and restructuring activities, will not adversely affect our business, operations or customer perceptions, or result in additional future charges. in addition, we have recently experienced changes in our management, which together with these cost reduction and restructuring activities, could also cause our remaining employees to leave or result in reduced productivity by our remaining employees, which in turn may affect our revenue and other operating results in the future. we have faced difficulties assimilating, and may incur costs associated with, acquisitions and dispositions. we made numerous acquisitions and dispositions in the last six years and will pursue additional acquisitions and dispositions in the future. we have experienced difficulty in, and in the future may face difficulties, integrating the personnel, products, technologies or operations of companies or businesses we acquire or divest. assimilating acquired businesses and dispositions involve a number of other risks, including, but not limited to: the potential disruption of our ongoing business; 27 table of contents the potential impairment of relationships with our employees, customers and strategic partners; the need to manage more geographically-dispersed operations, such as our offices in the states of georgia, kansas, illinois, massachusetts, new york, rhode island, texas, virginia, and washington, and globally in australia, europe, india, japan, south africa and south america; greater than expected costs and/or lower than expected revenues and the assumption of unknown liabilities; the diversion of management attention from our other businesses in identifying, completing and integrating acquisitions; the inability to retain the key employees of the acquired businesses; adverse effects on the existing customer relationships of acquired companies; the inability to incorporate acquired technologies successfully into our operations infrastructure; the difficulty of assimilating the operations and personnel of the acquired businesses; the potential incompatibility of business cultures; additional regulatory requirements; any perceived adverse changes in business focus; entering into markets and acquiring technologies in areas in which we have little experience; the need to incur debt, which may reduce our cash available for operations and other uses, or issue equity securities, which may dilute the ownership interests of our existing stockholders; and the inability to maintain uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies. if we are unable to successfully address any of these risks for future acquisitions and dispositions, our business could be harmed. additionally, there is risk that we may incur additional expenses associated with an impairment of a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions for acquisitions and dispositions. under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and to evaluate other intangible assets as events or circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. these evaluations could result in further impairments of goodwill or other intangible assets. we may not realize the benefits we are seeking from our investments in the jamba joint ventures as a result of lower than predicted operating results, larger funding requirements or lower cash distributions or otherwise. we have a 49% equity interest in two joint ventures related to our former jamba business. we will incur our proportionate share of the income or losses of these joint ventures in our consolidated statements of income. we do not have control over the budget, day-to-day management or many of the other operating expenditures of the joint ventures, and therefore, we cannot predict with certainty the extent of the impact on our financial statements of these joint ventures for any particular period. accordingly, our share of the income or losses of these joint ventures could materially affect our results of operations in future periods. the joint venture agreements contain provisions requiring minimum cash distributions to the members. however, these provisions are subject to conditions and limitations, and therefore, we cannot assure you that we will ever receive cash distributions from these joint ventures. if the joint ventures require capital to fund their operations, we could be required to make capital contributions or loans to the joint ventures. the business operated by the u.s. joint venture is a newer business and therefore it may be more likely to require additional funding, although we cannot assure that the netherlands joint venture will not require additional funding as well. 28 table of contents if the netherlands joint venture makes cash distributions to its members, to the extent we seek to use the cash in the u.s., we would be required to pay taxes on those funds if they are brought to the u.s., and therefore we would not receive the full benefit of any cash distribution. additionally, we could be required to pay additional amounts to the joint ventures if it is later determined that we breached any of the representations of warranties in the formation agreement for the joint ventures. the value of our investment in these joint ventures is subject to general economic, technological and market trends, as well as to the operating and financial decisions of the management team of the joint venture, all of which are outside of our control. in addition, these joint ventures may not gain the expected number of customers and/or generate the expected level of revenues, and consequently, we may never receive any cash distributions from these joint ventures, and in fact, they may require additional funding, any of which could diminish the value of or dilute our investment. our investments in these joint ventures may not provide the economic returns we are seeking and may not increase in value above the minimum amounts that we can require fox or news corporation to buy our shares from us. we cannot assure you that the commercial agreements, including the gateway services agreement, will provide us any benefit. it is also possible that fox and news corporation could purchase our shares from us in the future, prior to the businesses of the joint ventures reaching their full potential. therefore, we cannot provide you with any assurance as to whether we will achieve a favorable return on our investment. we also entered into various other commercial relationships with the joint ventures; however, we cannot assure you we will derive significant revenues from these other relationships. the expansion of our international operations subjects our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. we intend to expand our international operations and international sales and marketing activities. for example, we expect to expand our operations and marketing activities throughout asia, europe, latin america and south america. we have approximately 1,870 employees outside the united states. expansion in these international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our other services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into international markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violations of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, there are risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability and compliance with foreign laws; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; 29 table of contents problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as our international revenues from europe, south africa, japan, south america and australia are not denominated in u.s. dollars; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; the necessity of developing foreign language portals and products for our services; difficulty of authenticating customer information for digital certificates and other purposes; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. our failure to manage past and future growth in our business could harm our business. between december 31, 1995 and december 31, 2006, we grew from 26 to 5,331 employees. this was achieved through internal growth, as well as acquisitions. during this time period, we opened new sales offices and significantly expanded our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. to successfully manage past growth and any future growth, we will need to continue to implement additional management information systems, continue the development of our operating, administrative, financial and accounting systems and controls and maintain close coordination among our executive, engineering, accounting, finance, marketing, sales and operations organizations. any failure to manage growth effectively could harm our business. the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. competition in security services . our security services are targeted at the rapidly evolving market for internet security services, including network security, authentication and validation, which enable secure electronic commerce and communications over wireline and wireless ip networks. the market for security services is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product and service introductions and other market activities of industry participants. principal competitors generally fall within one of the following categories: (1) companies such as rsa security, inc. and entrust technologies, which offer software applications and related digital certificate products that customers operate themselves; (2) companies such as digital signature trust company (a subsidiary of identrus) that primarily offer digital certificate and certification authority related services; (3) companies focused on providing a bundled offering of products and services such as cybertrust; and (4) companies offering competing ssl certificate and other security services, including godaddy and other domain name registrars. we also experience competition from a number of smaller companies, and we believe that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. furthermore, netscape and microsoft have introduced software products that enable the issuance and management of digital certificates, and we believe that other companies could introduce similar products. in addition, browser companies that embed our interface technologies or otherwise feature them as a provider of digital certificate products and services in their web browsers or on their web sites could also promote our competitors or charge us substantial fees for promotions in the future. 30 table of contents competition in managed security services . consulting companies or professional services groups of other companies with internet expertise are current or potential competitors to our managed security services. these companies include large systems integrators and consulting firms, such as accenture, ibm global services, getronics and lucent netcare. we also compete with security product companies that offer managed security services in addition to other security services, such as symantec and iss, as well as a number of providers such as cybertrust and bt counterpane that offer managed security services. telecommunications providers, such as verizon business, a provider of managed security services, are also potential competitors. in addition, we compete with some companies that have developed products that automate the management of ip addresses and name maps throughout enterprise-wide intranets, and with companies with internally developed systems integration efforts. competition in communications services. the market for communications services is extremely competitive and subject to significant pricing pressure. competition in this area arises from two primary sources. incumbent carriers provide competing in-house services in their respective regions. in addition, we face direct competition from national, unregulated companies, including syniverse technologies, telcordia, neustar and other carriers such as southern new england telephone diversified group, a unit of at&amp;t. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third-party providers, such as verisign, and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in commerce services . our wireless billing and payment services are also subject to competition from providers such as comverse, amdocs, convergys corporation and boston communications group. we are also aware of major internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are or may in the future be focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that may compete directly with ours. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third-party providers such as verisign and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in content services. the market for content services is extremely competitive. competitors include developers of content and entertainment products and services in a variety of domestic and international markets, such as infospace, itouch, arvato mobile, monstermob, and motricity this business also faces competition from mobile network operators such as cingular, verizon wireless, sprint nextel corporation, t-mobile, vodafone, o 2 , orange, e-plus and telef&oacute;nica, as well as internet portal operators such as yahoo!, aol, t-online and google. additional competitors are handset manufacturers such as nokia and software providers such as microsoft and apple. as the market for wireless data, including information and entertainment data, matures, new categories of competitors, such as mobile phone companies, broadcasters, music publishers, other content providers or others have begun to develop competing products or services. competition in naming services. we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the . mobi , . biz , .name, .pro, .aero, .museum and .coop gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. there are currently 16 gtld registries and over 240 cctld registries. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolutions and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are ultradns, neulevel, affilias, register.com and tucows.com. competition in intelligent supply chain services. there are a number of companies that provide intelligent supply chain services. for point-of-sale data, we face competition from iri and ac nielsen, as well as smaller software companies. for consulting services, we face competition from traditional consulting firms. 31 table of contents competition in real-time publisher services . we face competition from various smaller companies providing similar services. competition in digital brand management services. we face competition from companies providing services similar to some of our digital brand management services. in the monitoring services, registration and domain name asset management area of our business, our competition comes primarily from icann accredited registrars and various smaller companies providing similar services. several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, the demand for our products and services might be substantially reduced and the ability to distribute our products successfully and the utilization of our services would be substantially diminished. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase the competitive pressure. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure you that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our security services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. our communications services business depends in part on the acceptance of our ss7 network and the telecommunications industry continuing use of ss7 technology. our future growth in our communications services business depends, in part, on the commercial success and reliability of our ss7 network. our ss7 network is a vital component of our intelligent network services and has been a significant source of revenues for our communications services group. our communications services business will suffer if our target customers do not use our ss7 network. our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced ss7-based services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our particular ss7 network solution or continue to use our ss7 network. in the future, we may not be successful in marketing our ss7 network or any new or enhanced services. the inability of our customers to successfully implement our signaling and network services with their existing systems could adversely affect our business. significant technical challenges exist in our signaling and network services business because many of our customers: purchase and implement ss7 network services in phases; deploy ss7 connectivity across a variety of telecommunication switches and routes; and integrate our ss7 network with a number of legacy systems, third-party software applications and engineering tools. customer implementation currently requires participation by our order management and our engineering and operations groups, each of which has limited resources. some customers may also require us to develop 32 table of contents costly customized features or capabilities, which increases our costs and consumes a disproportionate share of our limited customer service and support resources. also, we typically charge one-time fees for initially connecting a customer to our ss7 network and a monthly recurring flat rate fee after the connection is established. if new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our engineering service support, we may experience reduced operating margins. our customers ability to deploy our network services to their own customers and integrate them successfully within their systems depends on our customers capabilities and the complexity involved. difficulty in deploying those services could reduce our operating margins due to increased customer support and could cause potential delays in recognizing revenues until the services are implemented. our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our communications services at desired pricing levels and industry consolidation could adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. the telecommunications industry is characterized by significant price competition. competition and industry consolidation in our communications services could result in significant pricing pressure and an erosion of our market share. pricing pressure from competition could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. for example, our competitors may provide customers with reduced communications costs for internet access or private network services, reducing the overall cost of services and significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. we would need to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of our customers, generating higher revenues from enhanced services or reducing our costs, and we may not be able to do so successfully. we believe that the business of providing network connectivity and related network services will see increased consolidation in the future. consolidation could decrease selling prices and increase competition in these industries, which could erode our market share, revenues and operating margins in our communications services group. consolidation in the telecommunications industry has led to the merging of many companies, including at&amp;t wireless, mci, nextel and price communications, customers of our communications services group. our business could be harmed if these mergers result in the loss of customers by our communications services group. furthermore, customers may choose to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services thereby reducing the demand for technologies and services we offer which could harm our business. our content services business depends on agreements with many different third parties, including wireless carriers and content providers. if these agreements are terminated or not renewed, or are amended to require us to change the way our content services are offered to customers, our business could be harmed. our content services business depends on our ability to enter into and maintain agreements with many different third parties including wireless carriers and other mobile phone service providers, upon which this business is highly dependent for billing its customers. these agreements are typically for a short term, or are otherwise terminable upon short notice, and in the case of agreements with carriers, other mobile phone service providers and content developers, are non-exclusive. if these third parties reduce their commitment to us, terminate their agreements with us or enter into similar agreements with our competitors, our content services business could be materially harmed. our business depends on the continued growth of the internet and adoption and continued use of ip networks. our future success depends, in part, on continued growth in the use of the internet and ip networks. if the use of, and interest in, the internet and ip networks does not grow, our business would be harmed. to date, many businesses and consumers have been deterred from utilizing the internet and ip networks for a number of reasons, including, but not limited to: potentially inadequate development of network infrastructure; security concerns, particularly for online commerce, including the potential for merchant or user impersonation and fraud or theft of stored data and information communicated over ip networks; 33 table of contents privacy concerns, including the potential for third parties to obtain personally identifiable information about users or to disclose or sell data without notice to or the consent of such users; other security concerns such as attacks on popular web sites by hackers ; inconsistent quality of service; inability to integrate business applications on ip networks; the need to operate with multiple and frequently incompatible products; limited bandwidth access; and government regulation. the widespread acceptance of the internet and ip networks will require a broad acceptance of new methods of conducting business and exchanging information. organizations that already have invested substantial resources in other methods of conducting business may be reluctant to adopt new methods. also, individuals with established patterns of purchasing goods and services and effecting payments may be reluctant to change. a number of states, as well as the u.s. congress, have been considering various initiatives that could permit sales and use taxes on internet sales. if any of these initiatives are adopted, it could substantially impair the growth of electronic commerce and therefore hinder the growth in the use of the internet and ip networks, which could harm our business. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could suffer. we target our security services at the market for trusted and secure electronic commerce and communications over ip and other networks. our information services business unit is developing managed services designed to work with the epcglobal network and radio frequency identification ( rfid ), technology, point-of-sale data services and real-time publisher services. these are rapidly evolving markets that may not continue to grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile handsets; demand for supply chain information services, including acceptance of rfid technology, the epcglobal network and point-of-sale data services; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting electronic commerce and communications over ip networks. if the market for electronic commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business would be materially harmed. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. the growth and development of the internet has led to new laws and regulations, as well as the application of existing laws to the internet and wireless communications. application of these laws can be unclear. the costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our 34 table of contents markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business. for example, recent laws include those designed to restrict the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions or obligations for on-line services when dealing with minors. such legislation may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the emerging nature of the internet, other communication networks, content, digital certificate, and domain name registration markets, and their rapid evolution, require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. in particular, the market for entertainment and information is characterized by changing technology, developing industry standards, changing customer preferences and trends (which also vary from country to country), and the constant introduction of new products and services. in order to remain competitive, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences. when entertainment products are placed on the market, it is difficult to predict whether they will become popular. the communications network services industry is also characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements. significant technological changes could make our technologies obsolete and other changes in our markets could result in some of our other products and services losing market share. accordingly, we must continually improve the responsiveness, reliability and features of our services and develop new features, services and applications to meet changing customer needs in our target markets. for example, we sell our ss7 network services primarily to traditional telecommunications companies that rely on traditional voice networks. many emerging companies are providing convergent internet protocol-based network services. our future success could also depend upon our ability to provide products and services to these internet protocol-based telephony providers, particularly if ip-based telephony becomes widely accepted. we cannot assure that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. new products and services developed or introduced by us may not result in any significant revenues. we must commit significant resources to develop new products and services before knowing whether our investments will result in products and services the market will accept. the success of new products and services depends on several factors, including proper new definition and timely completion, introduction and market acceptance. for example, our selection in january 2004 by epcglobal, a not-for-profit standards organization, to operate the object naming service as the root directory for the epcglobal network, may not increase our revenues in the foreseeable future. there can be no assurance that we will successfully identify new product and service opportunities, develop and bring new products and services to market in a timely manner, or achieve market acceptance of our products and services, or that products, services and technologies developed by others will not render our products, services or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive. our inability to successfully market new products and services may harm our business. 35 table of contents issues arising from our agreements with icann and the department of commerce could harm our registry business. the u.s. department of commerce ( doc ) has adopted a plan for the phased transition of the doc responsibilities for the domain name system to the internet corporation for assigned names and numbers ( icann ). as part of this transition, as the exclusive registry of domain names within the . com and . net generic top-level domains ( gtlds ), we have entered into agreements with icann and with the doc as described elsewhere in this report. we face risks from the transition of the doc responsibilities for the domain name system to icann, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com and .net gtlds or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans; the doc or icann could terminate our agreements to be the registry for the .com or .net gtlds under the circumstances described elsewhere in this report; if the . com and . net registry agreements are terminated, it could have a material adverse impact on our business; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; the doc could revoke its recognition of icann, as a result of which the doc could take the place of icann for purposes of our agreements with icann, and could take actions that are harmful to us; the u.s. government could refuse to transfer certain responsibilities for domain name system administration to icann due to security, stability or other reasons, resulting in fragmentation or other instability in domain name system administration; and our registry business could face legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars. challenges to ongoing privatization of internet administration could harm our domain name registry business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the united states and other countries, to our role in the ongoing privatization of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in domain name system administration; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed with, and may in the future disagree with, the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the domain name system. these foreign governments or governmental authorities may take actions or adopt policies or programs that are harmful to our business. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our domain name registry business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted. 36 table of contents if we encounter system interruptions, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; computer viruses or software defects; and physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in mountain view, california and kawasaki, japan, both of which are susceptible to earthquakes; providence, rhode island; dulles, virginia; lacey, washington; overland park, kansas, melbourne, australia and berlin, hamburg and verl, germany. any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. in addition, our ability to issue digital certificates, our domain name registry services and other of our services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our domain name zone servers, the domain name root servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, which could harm our business. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain confidential customer information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. our domain name registry operations also depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to reasonably protect our systems against interruption, and potentially depend on protection by other registrars in the shared registration system. the root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware to our registry services operations. therefore, we may have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar disruptive problems. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability and customers could be reluctant to use our 37 table of contents services. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of electronic commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. the reliance of our network connectivity and interoperability services and content services on third-party communications infrastructure, hardware and software exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. the success of our network connectivity and interoperability services and content services depends on our network infrastructure, including the capacity leased from telecommunications suppliers. in particular, we rely on at&amp;t, mci, sprint and other telecommunications providers for leased long-haul and local loop transmission capacity. these companies provide the dedicated links that connect our network components to each other and to our customers. our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned by third parties that is used to connect telephone calls. specifically, we currently lease capacity from regional providers on four of the fourteen mated pairs of ss7 signal transfer points that comprise our network. we have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure or whether or not those third parties will upgrade or improve their equipment. we depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our connections. if one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. in addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to the merging of many companies. these mergers may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could cause the length of time it takes to deliver the services that we use to increase significantly. our signaling and ss7 services rely on links, equipment and software provided to us from our vendors, the most important of which are gateway equipment and software from tekelec and agilent technologies, inc. we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase equipment from these vendors on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure product availability with these vendors, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative suppliers of products and services. capacity limits on our technology and network hardware and software may be difficult to project and we may not be able to expand and upgrade our systems to meet increased use. if traffic from our telecommunication and content customers through our network increases, we will need to expand and upgrade our technology and network hardware and software. we may not be able to expand and upgrade, in a timely manner, our systems and network hardware and software capabilities to accommodate increased traffic on our network. if we do not appropriately expand and upgrade our systems and network hardware and software, we may lose customers and revenues. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the thirteen root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a volunteer basis. because of the importance to the functioning of the internet of these root zone servers, our registry services business could be harmed if these volunteer operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our registry services business could be harmed if any of these volunteer operators fail to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls. in the event and to the extent that icann is authorized to set policy with regard to an authoritative root server system, as provided in our registry agreement with icann, it is required to ensure that the authoritative root will point to the top-level domain zone servers designated by us. if icann does not do this, our business could be harmed. 38 table of contents undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop frequently contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. services offered by our internet services group rely on public key cryptography technology that may compromise our system security. services offered by our internet services group depend on public key cryptography technology. with public key cryptography technology, a user is given a public key and a private key, both of which are required to perform encryption and decryption operations. the security afforded by this technology depends on the integrity of a user private key and that it is not lost, stolen or otherwise compromised. the integrity of private keys also depends in part on the application of specific mathematical principles known as factoring. this integrity is predicated on the assumption that the factoring of large numbers into their prime number components is difficult. should an easy factoring method be developed, the security of encryption products utilizing public key cryptography technology would be reduced or eliminated. furthermore, any significant advance in techniques for attacking cryptographic systems could also render some or all of our existing pki services obsolete or unmarketable. if improved techniques for attacking cryptographic systems were ever developed, we would likely have to reissue digital certificates to some or all of our customers, which could damage our reputation and brand or otherwise harm our business. in the past there have been public announcements of the successful attack upon cryptographic keys of certain kinds and lengths and of the potential misappropriation of private keys and other activation data. this type of publicity could also hurt the public perception as to the safety of the public key cryptography technology included in our digital certificates. this negative public perception could harm our business. some of our security services have lengthy sales and implementation cycles. we market many of our security services directly to large companies and government agencies and we market our communications services to large telecommunication carriers. the sale and implementation of our services to these entities typically involves a lengthy education process and a significant technical evaluation and commitment of capital and other resources. this process is also subject to the risk of delays associated with customers internal budgeting and other procedures for approving large capital expenditures, deploying new technologies within their networks and testing and accepting new technologies that affect key operations. as a result, the sales and implementation cycles associated with certain of our services can be lengthy, potentially lasting from three to nine months. our quarterly and annual operating results could be materially harmed if orders forecasted for a specific customer for a particular quarter are not realized. failure of verisign affiliates to follow our security and trust practices or to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. we have licensed to verisign affiliates our processing center platform, which is designed to replicate our own secure data centers and allows the verisign affiliate to offer back-end processing of pki services for enterprises. the verisign processing center platform provides a verisign affiliate with the knowledge and 39 table of contents technology to offer pki services similar to those offered by us. it is critical to our business strategy that the facilities and infrastructure used in issuing and marketing digital certificates remain secure and we are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. although we provide the verisign affiliate with training in security and trust practices, network management and customer service and support, these practices are performed by the affiliate and are outside of our control. any failure of a verisign affiliate to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could result in negative publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of our services as well as the security of electronic commerce and communication over ip networks generally. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends on our internally developed technologies, patents and other intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the united states. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our business could suffer if we lost the rights to use these technologies. a third-party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of, or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could delay the introduction of our internet infrastructure services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. this could harm our business. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and which could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. in addition, we use news content as part of our real-time publisher service. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously and simultaneously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. 40 table of contents we must establish and maintain strategic and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our security services and communications services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, our ability to achieve future growth will also depend on our ability to continue to establish direct seller channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. failure of one or more of our strategic relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the u.s. and abroad. in addition, our stringent hiring practices for some of our key personnel, which consist of background checks into prospective employees criminal and financial histories, further limit the number of qualified persons for these positions. we have no employment agreements with any of our key executives that prevent them from leaving verisign at any time. in addition, we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. compliance with rules and regulations concerning corporate governance is costly and could harm our business. the sarbanes-oxley act mandates, among other things, that companies adopt new corporate governance measures and imposes comprehensive reporting and disclosure requirements, sets stricter independence and financial expertise standards for audit committee members and imposes increased civil and criminal penalties for companies, their chief executive officers and chief financial officers and directors for securities law violations. for example, section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act requires companies to do a comprehensive and costly evaluation of their internal controls. in addition, the nasdaq stock market has adopted additional comprehensive rules and regulations relating to corporate governance. these laws, rules and regulations have increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, and our compliance efforts have required significant management attention. it has become more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have been required to accept reduced coverage and incur substantially higher costs to obtain the reduced level of coverage. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer could face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. 41 table of contents we have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; we currently have a classified board of directors, with the board being currently divided into three classes that serve staggered three-year terms, although we intend to declassify our board commencing in connection with our 2007 annual meeting of stockholders; vacancies on our board may be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders only by majority vote of the directors then in office; and special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board, the president or the board, and not by our stockholders. verisign has also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the plan, including the acquisition of 20% of verisign outstanding common stock by a person or group. each right entitles the holder, other than an acquiring person, to acquire shares of verisign common stock at a 50% discount to the then-prevailing market price. verisign board of directors may redeem outstanding rights at any time prior to a person becoming an acquiring person, at a price of $0.001 per right. prior to such time, the terms of the rights may be amended by verisign board of directors without the approval of the holders of the rights. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 92 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk equity investments we invest in debt and equity securities of technology companies for investment purposes. in most instances, we invest in the equity and debt securities of private companies for which there is no public market, and therefore, carry a high level of risk. these companies are typically in the early stage of development and are expected to incur substantial losses in the near-term. therefore, these companies may never become publicly traded. even if they do, an active trading market for their securities may never develop and we may never realize any return on these investments. in 2006, 2005 and 2004, we determined the decline in value of certain public and non-public equity investments was other-than-temporary and we recognized impairments totaling $0.4 million, $0.8 million, and $12.6 million, respectively. due to the inherent risk associated with some of our investments, we may incur future losses on the sale or impairment of our investments. interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our short-term investment management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and driving after-tax returns. we manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. we invest in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2006, 68% of our investments subject to interest rate risk mature in less than one year. notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. at any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. the following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value of our fixed income securities in our short-term investment portfolio as of december 31, 2006, arising from potential changes in interest rates. the modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 25 basis points ( bps ), 50 bps, 100 bps, and 150 bps. uniform decrease in rates uniform increase in rates (150) bps (100) bps (50) bps (25) bps 0 bps 25 bps 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) $2,404 $ 1,603 $ 801 $ 401 $ $ (401 ) $ (801 ) $ (1,603 ) $ (2,404 ) the following table presents the amounts of our cash equivalents and short-term investments that are subject to interest rate risk by range of expected maturity and weighted-average interest rates as of december 31, 2006. this table does not include money market funds because those funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk. maturing in total estimated fair value six months or less six months to one year more than one year (dollars in thousands) included in cash and cash equivalents $ 13,176 $ $ $ 13,176 $ 13,176 weighted-average interest rate 5.01 % included in short-term investments $ 105,840 $ 60,460 $ 34,147 $ 200,447 $ 198,656 weighted-average interest rate 4.29 % 3.74 % 4.29 % included in restricted cash and investments $ $ $ 49,437 $ 49,437 $ 49,437 weighted-average interest rate 4.06 % 92 table of contents foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. as we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated a foreign currency risk management program designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. at december 31, 2006, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling approximately $182.4 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. all forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with high-quality financial institutions. 93 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: the uncertainties, costs and risks related to our proposed divestiture plan, including any income statement charges we incur in connection therewith; the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our security services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; volume of domain name registrations and customer renewals in our naming services business; the mix of all our services sold during a period; our success in marketing and market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services; continued development of our direct and indirect distribution channels for our information and security services, both in the united states and abroad; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by enterprise customers; the impact of price changes in our communications services and information and security services or our competitors products and services; and general economic and market conditions as well as economic and market conditions specific to the telecommunications and internet industries. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 13 table of contents our operating results may be adversely affected by the uncertain geopolitical environment and unfavorable economic and market conditions. adverse economic conditions worldwide have contributed to downturns in the telecommunications and technology industries in the past and could impact our business in the future, resulting in: reduced demand for our services as a result of a decrease in information technology and telecommunications spending by our customers; increased price competition for our products and services; and higher overhead costs as a percentage of revenues. recent political turmoil in many parts of the world, including terrorist and military actions, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions. if the economic and market conditions in the united states and globally do not improve, or if they deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. our diversified business structure may result in significant fluctuations of our financial results. many of the companies we have acquired during the past 7 years operated in different businesses from our then-current business. although we plan on divesting many of these businesses, until our divestiture plan is complete, our success will depend on many factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other internet protocol ( ip ) networks for electronic commerce and communications; the extent to which digital certificates and domain names are used for electronic commerce or communications; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of electronic commerce and communications over the internet and other ip networks; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the success in marketing and overall demand for our content services to consumers and businesses; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; and our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships. to address these risks we must, among other things, continue to: successfully market our services to new and existing customers; attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate qualified personnel; respond to competitive developments; successfully introduce new services; and successfully introduce enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards and changing market conditions. 14 table of contents we may not realize the benefits we are seeking from our investments in the jamba joint ventures as a result of lower than predicted operating results, larger funding requirements or lower cash distributions or otherwise. we have a 49% equity interest in two joint ventures related to our former jamba business. we will recognize our proportionate share of the income or losses of these joint ventures in our consolidated statements of operations. we do not have control over the budget, day-to-day management or many of the other operating expenditures of the joint ventures, and therefore, we cannot predict with certainty the extent of the impact on our financial statements of these joint ventures for any particular period. accordingly, our share of the income or losses of these joint ventures could materially affect our results of operations in future periods. the joint venture agreements contain provisions requiring minimum cash distributions to the members. however, these provisions are subject to conditions and limitations, and therefore, we cannot assure you that we will ever receive cash distributions from these joint ventures. if the joint ventures require capital to fund their operations, we could be required to make capital contributions or loans to the joint ventures. the business operated by the u.s. joint venture is a newer business and therefore it may be more likely to require additional funding, although we cannot assure you that the netherlands joint venture will not require additional funding as well. additionally, we could be required to pay additional amounts to the joint ventures if it is later determined that we breached any of the representations or warranties in the formation agreement for the joint ventures. the value of our investment in these joint ventures is subject to general economic, technological and market trends, as well as to the operating and financial decisions of the management team of the joint venture, all of which are outside of our control. in addition, these joint ventures may not gain the expected number of customers and/or generate the expected level of revenues, and consequently, we may never receive any cash distributions from these joint ventures, and in fact, they may require additional funding, any of which could diminish the value of or dilute our investment. our investments in these joint ventures may not provide the economic returns we are seeking and may not increase in value above the minimum amounts at which we can require fox or news corporation to buy our shares from us. we cannot assure you that the commercial agreements, including the gateway services agreement, will provide us any benefit. it is also possible that fox and news corporation could purchase our shares from us in the future, prior to the businesses of the joint ventures reaching their full potential. therefore, we cannot provide you with any assurance as to whether we will achieve a favorable return on our investment. we also entered into various other commercial relationships with the joint ventures; however, we cannot assure you that we will derive significant revenues from these other relationships. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2007, we had approximately 1,200 employees outside the united states, including europe, asia, australia, and the americas. expansion into international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our other services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into international markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the united states. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or united states regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violations of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the 15 table of contents importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, there are risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability and compliance with foreign laws; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as our international revenues from europe, south africa, japan, south america and australia are not denominated in u.s. dollars; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; the necessity of developing foreign language portals and products for our services; difficulty of authenticating customer information for digital certificates and other purposes; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and wireless communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failure to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business. for example, recent laws include those designed to restrict the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children and impose additional restrictions or obligations for on-line services when dealing with minors. such legislation may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. 16 table of contents we have identified a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. our management has identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting as of december 31, 2007, arising from internal control deficiencies in our stock administration policies and practices, as discussed in part ii, item 9a, controls and procedures. in addition, due to the identification of a material weakness in internal control over financial reporting, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that, as of december 31, 2007, and the date of this report, our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective. we will continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. we cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more significant deficiencies (as defined by the relevant auditing standards) or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on the price of our securities. we have expended significant resources in connection with our efforts to comply with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act. in future periods, we will likely continue to expend substantial amounts in connection with these compliance efforts and with ongoing evaluation of, and improvements and enhancements to, our internal control over financial reporting. these expenditures may make it difficult for us to control or reduce the growth of our general and administrative and other expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations and the price of our securities. issues arising from our agreements with icann and the doc could harm our registry business. the u.s. doc has adopted a plan for the phased transition of the doc responsibilities for the domain name system to icann. as part of this transition, as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com and .net gtlds, we have entered into agreements with icann and with the doc. we face risks from the transition of the doc responsibilities for the domain name system to icann, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com and .net gtlds or that are inconsistent with our current or future plans; the doc or icann could terminate our agreements to be the registry for the .com or .net gtlds under the circumstances described elsewhere in this report; if the .com and/or .net registry agreements are terminated, it could have a material adverse impact on our business; the renewal of the .com registry agreement is not approved by the doc; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; the doc could revoke its recognition of icann, as a result of which the doc could take the place of icann for purposes of our agreements with icann, and could take actions that are harmful to us and could disrupt current or future business plans; 17 table of contents the u.s. government could refuse to transfer certain responsibilities for domain name system administration to icann due to security, stability or other reasons, resulting in fragmentation or other instability in domain name system administration; and our registry business could face legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars and registrants. challenges to ongoing privatization of internet administration could harm our domain name registry business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the united states and other countries, to our role in the ongoing privatization of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in domain name system administration; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the united states have in the past disagreed with, and may in the future disagree with, the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the domain name system. these foreign governments or governmental authorities may take actions or adopt policies or programs that are harmful to our business. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our domain name registry business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the thirteen root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a non-regulated basis. because of the importance to the functioning of the internet of these root zone servers, our registry services business could be harmed if these independent operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our registry services business could be harmed if any of these volunteer operators fail to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls. in the event and to the extent that icann is authorized to set policy with regard to an authoritative root server system, as provided in our registry agreement with icann, it is required to ensure that the authoritative root will point to the top-level domain zone servers designated by us. if icann does not do this, our business could be harmed. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop frequently contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated 18 table of contents software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; computer viruses or software defects; and physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in mountain view, california and kawasaki, japan, both of which are susceptible to earthquakes; providence, rhode island; dulles, virginia; lacey, washington; overland park, kansas, melbourne, australia and berlin, hamburg and verl, germany. any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. in addition, our ability to issue digital certificates, our domain name registry services and other of our services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our domain name zone servers, the domain name root servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, which could harm our business. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain confidential customer information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. our domain name registry operations also depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to reasonably protect our systems against interruption, and potentially depend on protection by other registrars in the shared registration system. the root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware to our registry services operations. therefore, we may have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar disruptive problems. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial 19 table of contents and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability and customers could be reluctant to use our services. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of electronic commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. the reliance of our network connectivity and interoperability services and content services on third-party communications infrastructure, hardware and software exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. the success of our network connectivity and interoperability services and content services depends on our network infrastructure, including the capacity leased from telecommunications suppliers. in particular, we rely on at&amp;t, sprint and other telecommunications providers for leased long-haul and local loop transmission capacity. these companies provide the dedicated links that connect our network components to each other and to our customers. our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned by third parties that is used to connect telephone calls. specifically, we currently lease capacity from regional providers on four of the fourteen mated pairs of ss7 signal transfer points that comprise our network. we have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure or whether or not those third parties will upgrade or improve their equipment. we depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our connections. if one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. in addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to the merging of many companies. these mergers may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could cause the length of time it takes to deliver the services that we use to increase significantly. our signaling and ss7 services rely on links, equipment and software provided to us from our vendors, the most important of which are gateway equipment and software from tekelec and agilent technologies, inc. we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase equipment from these vendors on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure product availability with these vendors, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative suppliers of products and services. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends on our internally developed technologies, patents and other intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the united states. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the united states. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms 20 table of contents or at all. our business could suffer if we lost the rights to use these technologies. additionally, another party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of, or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could delay the introduction of our internet infrastructure services until equivalent technology, if available, is identified, licensed and integrated. this could harm our business. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and which could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. in addition, we provide links to news content as part of our real-time publisher service. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. any claims, with or without merit, could be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel, cause delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously and simultaneously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we must establish and maintain strategic and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our information and security services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, our ability to achieve future growth will also depend on our ability to continue to establish direct seller channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. failure of one or more of our strategic relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the united states and abroad. in addition, our 21 table of contents stringent hiring practices for some of our key personnel, which consist of background checks into prospective employees criminal and financial histories, further limit the number of qualified persons for these positions. we have no employment agreements with any of our key executives that prevent them from leaving verisign at any time. in addition, we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our officers or key employees. the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. compliance with rules and regulations concerning corporate governance is costly and could harm our business. ongoing compliance with the corporate governance requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act and the nasdaq stock market has increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, and our compliance efforts have required significant management attention. it is more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have been required to accept reduced coverage and incur substantially higher costs to obtain the reduced level of coverage. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. we have anti-takeover protections that may delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third-party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a meeting and not by written consent; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board may be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders only by majority vote of the directors then in office; and special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or the board, and not by our stockholders. verisign has also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control and make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will become exercisable only upon the occurrence of certain events specified in the plan, including the acquisition of 20% of verisign outstanding common stock by a person or group. each right entitles the holder, other than an acquiring person, to acquire shares of verisign common stock at a 50% discount to the then-prevailing market price. verisign board of directors may redeem outstanding rights at any time prior to a person becoming an acquiring person, at a price of $0.001 per right. prior to such time, the terms of the rights may be amended by verisign board of directors without the approval of the holders of the rights. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are 22 table of contents subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. competition in information and security services . our information and security services are targeted at the rapidly evolving market for internet security services, including network security, authentication and validation, which enable secure electronic commerce and communications over wireline and wireless ip networks. the market for information and security services is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product and service introductions and other market activities of industry participants. principal competitors generally fall within one of the following categories: (1) companies such as rsa, the security division of emc, and entrust technologies, which offer software applications and related digital certificate products that customers operate themselves; (2) companies such as digital signature trust company (a subsidiary of identrus) that primarily offer digital certificate and certification authority-related services; (3) companies focused on providing a bundled offering of products and services; and (4) companies offering competing ssl certificate and other security services, including godaddy and other domain name registrars. we also experience competition from a number of smaller companies, and we believe that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. furthermore, netscape and microsoft have introduced software products that enable the issuance and management of digital certificates, and we believe that other companies could introduce similar products. in addition, browser companies that embed our interface technologies or otherwise feature them as a provider of digital certificate products and services in their web browsers or on their web sites could also promote our competitors or charge us substantial fees for promotions in the future. competition in managed security services. consulting companies or professional services groups of other companies with internet expertise are current or potential competitors to our managed security services. these companies include large systems integrators and consulting firms, such as accenture, ibm global services, getronics and lucent netcare. we also compete with security product companies that offer managed security services in addition to other security services, such as symantec and iss, as well as a number of providers such as bt counterpane that offer managed security services. telecommunications providers, such as verizon business, a provider of managed security services, are also potential competitors. in addition, we compete with some companies that have developed products that automate the management of ip addresses and name maps throughout enterprise-wide intranets, and with companies with internally developed systems integration efforts. competition in real-time publisher services. we face competition from various smaller companies providing similar services. competition in digital brand management services. we face competition from companies providing services similar to some of our digital brand management services. in the monitoring services, registration and domain name asset management area of our business, our competition comes primarily from icann accredited registrars and various smaller companies providing similar services. competition in communications services. the market for communications services is extremely competitive and subject to significant pricing pressure. competition in this area arises from two primary sources. 23 table of contents incumbent carriers provide competing in-house services in their respective regions. in addition, we face direct competition from national, unregulated companies, including syniverse technologies, telcordia, neustar and other carriers such as southern new england telephone diversified group, a unit of at&amp;t. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third party providers, such as verisign, and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in commerce services. our wireless billing and payment services are also subject to competition from providers such as comverse, amdocs, convergys corporation and boston communications group. we are also aware of major internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are or may in the future be focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that may compete directly with ours. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third-party providers such as verisign and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in content services. the market for content services is extremely competitive. competitors include developers of content and entertainment products and services in a variety of domestic and international markets, such as infospace, itouch, arvato mobile, monstermob, and motricity. this business also faces competition from mobile network operators such as cingular, verizon wireless, sprint nextel corporation, t-mobile, vodafone, o 2 , orange, e-plus and telef&oacute;nica, as well as internet portal operators such as yahoo!, aol, t-online and google. additional competitors are handset manufacturers such as nokia and software providers such as microsoft and apple. as the market for wireless data, including information and entertainment data, matures, new categories of competitors, such as mobile phone companies, broadcasters, music publishers, other content providers or others have begun to develop competing products or services. competition in naming services. we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the .info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .name, .pro, .aero, .museum and .coop gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. there are currently 16 gtld registries and over 240 cctld registries. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolutions and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are ultradns, neulevel, afilias, register .com and tucows.com. several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, the demand for our products and services might be substantially reduced and the ability to distribute our products successfully and the utilization of our services would be substantially diminished. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase the competitive pressure. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure you that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our security services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. 24 table of contents our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industry are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences. we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost-effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to our divestiture plan we may face difficulties and incur costs associated with our divestiture plan and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. transitioning disposed businesses involves a number of risks, including, but not limited to difficulties separating operations, services, products and personnel; the potential impairment of relationships with our existing customers; the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees. for example, our divestiture plan will require a substantial amount of management, administrative and operational resources. these demands may distract our employees from the day-to-day operation of verisign core businesses. there is also risk that we may incur additional charges associated with an impairment of a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions for acquisitions and dispositions. under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, and to re-evaluate goodwill and to evaluate other intangible assets as events or circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. further, we are likely to incur income statement charges to complete the divestiture plan, which could be material. if we are unable to successfully address any of these risks for future dispositions, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits that we expect will result from the divestiture plan and such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect from the divestiture of verisign non-core businesses from our portfolio. for example, we may encounter difficulties identifying buyers for certain businesses or be unable to sell businesses identified for divestiture, and there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will place greater value on verisign following the divestiture plan than the value placed on us pre-divestiture. in addition, there is no guarantee that the planned divestitures will occur or will not be significantly delayed. completion of the plan of divestiture is subject to a number of factors, including: business, political and economic conditions in the united states and in other countries in which the company currently operates; governmental regulations and policies, actions and approvals of regulatory bodies; 25 table of contents the operating performance of the company; and identification of buyers and negotiation of sale agreements. we may be adversely affected under certain covenants in our bank credit facility. our bank credit agreement contains a negative covenant that limits our ability to sell assets and freely deploy the proceeds we receive from such sales, subject to exceptions based on the size and timing of the sales. therefore, depending on the size and timing of any dispositions that we decide to pursue as part of our divestiture plan, we may find it necessary to seek an amendment to our credit agreement or to structure the sales in a manner that complies with the covenant but that is potentially less favorable to the company than would otherwise be the case. there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining any such amendment on acceptable terms or at all or be able to structure potential dispositions accordingly. we may continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the divestiture of certain businesses. it is possible that under the agreements reached with buyers for businesses divested under the plan, we may remain liable for certain contingent and corporate liabilities. there is a possibility that we will incur costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities. these contingent and other corporate liabilities could potentially relate to consolidated securities litigation, as well as actions brought by third parties as a result of the divestiture plan. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be shared with the buyer, it is possible that the buyer or another party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations. completion of the divestiture plan may restrict our ability to compete in certain market sectors. it is possible that under the agreements reached with buyers for businesses divested under the plan, we will be restricted from competing, either directly or indirectly, with those businesses or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time pursuant to negotiated non-compete arrangements. risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2007, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 222.8 million shares were outstanding. in addition approximately, 46.6 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and approximately 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion or repurchase of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037. the availability of substantial amounts of our common stock resulting from the exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans or the conversion or repurchase of debentures using common stock, which would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we have not historically maintained substantial levels of indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the $1.25 billion principal amount of 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures, we have a substantially greater amount of long term debt than we have maintained in the past. in addition to the debentures, we have a revolving credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $500 million. while we currently have no outstanding borrowings under our credit facility, its availability allows us immediate access to working capital if we identify opportunities for the use of this cash. our maintenance of substantial levels of 26 table of contents debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may not have the ability to repurchase the debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of debentures, as required by the indenture governing the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures. holders of our outstanding 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture dated as of august 20, 2007 (the indenture ). although we currently have the intent and the ability to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash as required under the indenture, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the debentures in cash or to make the required repayment at such time or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms. in addition, upon conversion of the debentures, we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the debentures equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the debentures being converted and the conversion value of those debentures. such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. a fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the debentures or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default with respect to the debentures. while we currently have the intent and ability to settle the principal in cash, if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings, which may have an impact on our future financial condition and results of operations. for example, in august 2007, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued for comment, the proposed fasb staff position ( fsp ) no. apb 14-a ( fsp apb 14-a ), accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) , that would significantly affect the accounting for convertible debt. our 3.25% convertible debentures due 2037 would be affected by this proposed fsp. the proposed fsp would require the issuer to separately account for the liability and equity components of the instrument in a manner that reflects the issuer economic interest cost. further, the proposed fsp would require bifurcation of a component of the debt, classification of that component as equity, and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to result in the economic interest cost being reflected in the consolidated statement of income. in applying this fsp, the fasb emphasized that the fsp would be applied to the terms of the instruments as they existed for the time periods they existed, therefore, the application of the fsp would be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. if the fsp is approved, it is expected to be effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2007, and will require retrospective application. the company would be required to implement the proposed standard during the first quarter of 2008, which begins on january 1, 2008. although fsp apb 14-a would have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it would require us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense as the debt discount is amortized. in addition, if our convertible debt is redeemed or converted prior to maturity, any unamortized debt discount would result in a loss on extinguishment. as a result, there could be a material adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings per share. these impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and in turn negatively impact the trading price of the debentures. see note 10, junior subordinated convertible debentures, of our notes to consolidated financial statements for further information. 27 table of contents certain other risks our communications services business depends in part on the acceptance of our ss7 network and the telecommunications industry continuing use of ss7 technology. our future growth in our communications services business depends, in part, on the commercial success and reliability of our ss7 network. our ss7 network is a vital component of our network services and has been a significant source of revenues for our communications services group. our communications services business will suffer if our target customers do not use our ss7 network. our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced ss7-based services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our particular ss7 network solution or continue to use our ss7 network. the inability of our customers to successfully implement our signaling and network services with their existing systems could adversely affect our business. significant technical challenges exist in our signaling and network services business because many of our customers: purchase and implement ss7 network services in phases; deploy ss7 connectivity across a variety of telecommunication switches and routes; and integrate our ss7 network with a number of legacy systems, third-party software applications and engineering tools. customer implementation currently requires participation by our order management and our engineering and operations groups, each of which has limited resources. some customers may also require us to develop costly customized features or capabilities, which increases our costs and consumes a disproportionate share of our limited customer service and support resources. also, we typically charge one-time fees for initially connecting a customer to our ss7 network and a monthly recurring flat rate fee after the connection is established. if new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our engineering service support, we may experience reduced operating margins. our customers ability to deploy our network services to their own customers and integrate them successfully within their systems depends on our customers capabilities and the complexity involved. difficulty in deploying those services could reduce our operating margins due to increased customer support and could cause potential delays in recognizing revenues until the services are implemented. our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our communications services at desired pricing levels and industry consolidation could adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. the telecommunications industry is characterized by significant price competition. competition and industry consolidation in our communications services could result in significant pricing pressure and an erosion in our market share. pricing pressure from competition could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. for example, our competitors may provide customers with reduced communications costs for internet access or private network services, reducing the overall cost of services and significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. we would need to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of our customers, generating higher revenues from enhanced services or reducing our costs, and we may not be able to do so successfully. we believe that the business of providing network connectivity and related network services will see increased consolidation in the future. consolidation could decrease selling prices and increase competition in these industries, which could erode our market share, revenues and operating margins in our communications services group. furthermore, customers may choose to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services thereby reducing the demand for technologies and services we offer which could harm our business. 28 table of contents services offered by our internet services group rely on public key cryptography technology that may compromise our system security. services offered by our internet services group depend on public key cryptography technology. with public key cryptography technology, a user is given a public key and a private key, both of which are required to perform encryption and decryption operations. the security afforded by this technology depends on the integrity of a user private key and that it is not lost, stolen or otherwise compromised. the integrity of private keys also depends in part on the application of specific mathematical principles known as factoring. this integrity is predicated on the assumption that the factoring of large numbers into their prime number components is difficult. should an easy factoring method be developed, the security of encryption products utilizing public key cryptography technology would be reduced or eliminated. furthermore, any significant advance in techniques for attacking cryptographic systems could also render some or all of our existing pki services obsolete or unmarketable. if improved techniques for attacking cryptographic systems were ever developed, we would likely have to reissue digital certificates to some or all of our customers, which could damage our reputation and brand or otherwise harm our business. in the past there have been public announcements of the successful attack upon cryptographic keys of certain kinds and lengths and of the potential misappropriation of private keys and other activation data. this type of publicity could also hurt the public perception as to the safety of the public key cryptography technology included in our digital certificates. this negative public perception could harm our business. our content services business depends on agreements with many different third parties, including wireless carriers and content providers. if these agreements are terminated or not renewed, or are amended to require us to change the way our content services are offered to customers, our business could be harmed. our content services business depends on our ability to enter into and maintain agreements with many different third parties including wireless carriers and other mobile phone service providers, upon which this business is highly dependent for billing its customers. these agreements are typically for a short term, or are otherwise terminable upon short notice, and in the case of agreements with carriers, other mobile phone service providers and content developers, are non-exclusive. if these third parties reduce their commitment to us, terminate their agreements with us or enter into similar agreements with our competitors, our content services business could be materially harmed. failure of verisign affiliates to follow our security and trust practices or to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. we have licensed to verisign affiliates our processing center platform, which is designed to replicate our own secure data centers and allows the verisign affiliate to offer back-end processing of pki services for enterprises. the verisign processing center platform provides a verisign affiliate with the knowledge and technology to offer pki services similar to those offered by us. it is critical to our business strategy that the facilities and infrastructure used in issuing and marketing digital certificates remain secure and we are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. although we provide the verisign affiliate with training in security and trust practices, network management and customer service and support, these practices are performed by the affiliate and are outside of our control. any failure of a verisign affiliate to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could result in negative publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of our services as well as the security of electronic commerce and communication over ip networks generally. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could suffer. we target our information and security services at the market for trusted and secure electronic commerce and communications over ip and other networks. our naming services business unit is developing managed services designed to work with the epcglobal network and rfid, technology, point-of-sale data services and 29 table of contents real-time publisher services. these are rapidly evolving markets that may not continue to grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile handsets; demand for supply chain information services, including acceptance of rfid technology, the epcglobal network and point-of-sale data services; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting electronic commerce and communications over ip networks. if the market for electronic commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business would be materially harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate sensitivity the primary objective of our short-term investment management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and driving after-tax returns. we manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality and relatively short maturities. we invest in a variety of securities, including commercial paper, medium-term notes, corporate bonds and notes, u.s. government and agency securities and money market funds. in general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2007, our cash and cash equivalents consisted primarily of money market funds and we did not have any fixed income marketable securities. 63 table of contents notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. at any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. as we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. in the fourth quarter of 2003, we initiated a foreign currency risk management program designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. at december 31, 2007, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling approximately $50.9 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. all forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with high-quality financial institutions. market risk management the fair market value of the junior subordinated convertible debentures (the debentures ) issued by the company and due august 2037, is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of the debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2007, the fair value of the debentures was approximately $1.6 billion, based on quoted market prices. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 17 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: the uncertainties, costs and risks related to our proposed divestiture plan, including any income statement charges we incur in connection therewith and any further delays we may encounter; the current global economic conditions as well as its impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the telecommunications and internet industries; the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our security services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; volume of new domain name registrations and customer renewals in our naming services business; changes in the payment structures of on-line advertising network providers and compensation levels, as well as policies proposed and implemented by icann, which could impact the number of domain name registrations; the mix of all our services sold during a period; our success in marketing and market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services; potential attacks by hackers, which could threaten the perceived reliability of our products and services; continued development of our direct and indirect distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by enterprise customers; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors products and services; and the impact of decisions by channel partners and resellers to offer competing products or modify their marketing practices. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. 17 table of contents our operating results have been adversely affected by the current economic downturn, unfavorable market and economic conditions. the current global economic downturn may have a significant negative impact on demand for our services and our ability to conduct our business. as the economic downturn continues to deepen and spread overseas, these conditions have also negatively impacted our foreign operations. the economic downturn has or may negatively impact, among other things: current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to execute on any stock repurchase plans; the price of our common stock; the ability of our suppliers to continue to fill our orders; our customers continued growth and development of their businesses; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and price competition for our products and services. in addition, to the extent that the economic downturn impacts specific industry sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the economic and market conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial position as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. our diversified business structure may result in significant fluctuations of our financial results. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks for e-commerce and communications; the extent to which digital certificates and domain names are used for e-commerce or communications; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet and other ip networks; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing customers; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction of new products and services; 18 table of contents seasonal reductions in business activity; and the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards and changing market conditions. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2008, we had 959 employees outside the u.s. expansion into international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into international markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of them. violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars; difficulty in repatriating profits to the u.s.; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; the necessity of developing foreign language portals and products for our services; difficulty of authenticating customer information for digital certificates and other purposes; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. 19 table of contents we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. we have entered into hedging transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry which have been adversely impacted by the current economic condition. defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and wireless communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business. for example, laws designed to restrict the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, on-line gambling and cyber squatting may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that the governments of other states and foreign countries might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. while we believe we currently have effective internal control over financial reporting, we may identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. we will continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. we cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our business. we have expended significant resources in connection with our efforts to comply with the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act. in future periods, we will likely continue to expend substantial amounts in connection with these compliance efforts and with ongoing evaluation of, and improvements and enhancements to, our internal control over financial reporting. these expenditures may make it difficult for us to control or reduce the growth of our general and administrative and other expenses, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 20 table of contents issues arising from our agreements with icann and the doc could harm our registry business. the doc has adopted a plan for the phased transition of its responsibilities for the domain name system to icann. as part of this transition, we have entered into agreements with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .. com and . net generic top-level domains ( gtlds ) and with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the . name gtld. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc and from the planned transition of the doc responsibilities for the domain name system to icann, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and . name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or . name gtlds and the doc could terminate the .com registry agreement, in which case terminations of the .com or .net registry agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business; one or more of the registry agreements may not renew when they expire in 2011 (. net ) and 2012 (. com and . name ), in which case it could have a material adverse effect on our business; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; the doc could revoke its recognition of icann, as a result of which the doc could take the place of icann for purposes of our agreements with icann, and could take actions that are harmful to us and could disrupt current or future business plans; the doc could not renew its agreement with icann, in which case there would no longer be doc oversight; icann relationship with the doc could terminate and another entity could exercise oversight of icann; the u.s. government could refuse to transfer certain responsibilities for domain name system administration to icann due to security, stability or other reasons, resulting in fragmentation or other instability in domain name system administration; and our registry business could face legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars and registrants. challenges to ongoing privatization of internet administration could harm our naming services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing privatization of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in domain name system administration; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the domain name system. these foreign governments or governmental authorities may take actions or adopt policies or programs that are harmful to our business. 21 table of contents as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our domain name registry business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted. we may encounter difficulties renewing irrevocable letters of credit provided by customers of our naming services business as security for payment of registration fees if we are forced to draw down on such letters of credit to collect payment. with respect to our naming services business, some registrars who register domain names on behalf of their customers utilize irrevocable letters of credit to secure payment for the registration of domain names. in the event that we are unable to obtain payment for the registration of these domain names, we may draw down on the letter of credit. in some cases, withdrawals may be made until we utilize the full amount of the letter of credit, at which point the registrar ability to process new billable transactions and their agreement may be terminated. if registrars are unwilling or unable to provide new letters of credit once we have drawn down the full amount, we may need to reevaluate our approach for security for payment of registration fees. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the thirteen root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a non-regulated basis. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and data needed to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the top-level domains. because of the importance to the functioning of the internet of these root zone servers, our naming services business could be harmed if these independent operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our naming services business could be harmed if any of these volunteer operators fails to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls. in the event and to the extent that icann is authorized to set policy with regard to an authoritative root zone server system, as provided in our registry agreement with icann, it is required to ensure that the authoritative root will point to the top-level domain zone servers designated by us. if icann does not do this, our business could be harmed. changes in customer behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users navigate to a website either by directly typing in its domain name or through the use of a search engine. if browser or search technologies were to change significantly or if user behavior were to shift away from direct navigation, the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on on-line advertising and/or the way that on-line and pay per click advertisers compensate owners of websites could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google and yahoo!, could adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants resulting in a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. as a result of the general economic downturn, spending on on-line advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced which in turn may result in a decline in the demand for those domain names. 22 table of contents services offered by our 3is segment rely on the continued integrity of public key cryptography technology that may be compromised or proven obsolete over time. services offered by our 3is segment depend on public key cryptography technology. with public key cryptography technology, a user is given a public key and a private key, both of which are required to perform encryption and decryption operations. the security afforded by this technology depends on the integrity of a user private key and ensuring that it is not lost, stolen or otherwise compromised. the integrity of private keys also depends in part on the application of specific mathematical principles known as factoring. this integrity is predicated on the assumption that the factoring of large numbers into their prime number components is difficult. should an easy factoring method or other method be developed, the security of encryption products utilizing public key cryptography technology may require significant modifications or would be reduced or eliminated. furthermore, any significant advance in techniques for attacking cryptographic systems could also render some or all of our existing pki services obsolete or unmarketable. if improved techniques for attacking cryptographic systems were ever developed, we would likely have to reissue digital certificates to some or all of our customers, which could damage our reputation and brand or otherwise harm our business. in the past there have been public announcements of the successful attack upon cryptographic keys of certain kinds and lengths and of the potential misappropriation of private keys and other activation data. this type of publicity could also hurt the public perception as to the safety of the public key cryptography technology included in our digital certificates. this negative public perception could harm our business. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop frequently contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attack by hackers; computer viruses or software defects; and physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in mountain view, california and kawasaki, japan (both of which are susceptible to earthquakes); providence, rhode island; dulles, virginia; lacey, washington; overland park, kansas; melbourne, australia; london, 23 table of contents england; berlin, germany; and fribourg, switzerland. any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. in addition, our ability to issue ssl certificates, our domain name registry services and other of our services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our domain name zone servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain confidential customer information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. our domain name registry operations also depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to reasonably protect our systems against interruption, and potentially depend on protection by other registrars in the shared registration system. the root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware to our registry services operations. therefore, we may have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar disruptive problems. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. the reliance of our communications services and content services on third-party communications infrastructure, hardware and software exposes us to a variety of risks we cannot control. the success of our communications services and content services depends on our network infrastructure, including the capacity leased from telecommunications suppliers. in particular, we rely on at&amp;t, sprint nextel corporation and other telecommunications providers for leased long-haul and local loop transmission capacity. these companies provide the dedicated links that connect our network components to each other and to our customers. our business also depends upon the capacity, reliability and security of the infrastructure owned by third parties that is used to connect telephone calls. specifically, we currently lease capacity from regional providers on four of the thirteen mated pairs of ss7 signal transfer points that comprise our network. ss7 is a 24 table of contents network control system comprised of protocols for the interpretation and use of network control and operation signals and the associated hardware and software needed for transmission, reception and interpretation of the signals. we have no control over the operation, quality or maintenance of a significant portion of that infrastructure or whether or not those third parties will upgrade or improve their equipment. we depend on these companies to maintain the operational integrity of our connections. if one or more of these companies is unable or unwilling to supply or expand its levels of service to us in the future, our operations could be severely interrupted. in addition, rapid changes in the telecommunications industry have led to the merging of many companies. these mergers may cause the availability, pricing and quality of the services we use to vary and could cause the length of time it takes to deliver the services that we use to increase significantly. our ss7 connectivity and signaling services rely on links, equipment and software provided to us from our vendors, the most important of which are gateway equipment and software from tekelec and agilent technologies, inc. we cannot assure you that we will be able to continue to purchase equipment from these vendors on acceptable terms, if at all. if we are unable to maintain current purchasing terms or ensure product availability with these vendors, we may lose customers and experience an increase in costs in seeking alternative suppliers of products and services. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our business would suffer if we lost the rights to use certain of these technologies. additionally, another party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could harm our business. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products, particularly with respect to our ssl certificates. dilution of our brand could harm our business. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and which could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. in addition, we provide links to news content as 25 table of contents part of our rtp services. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there is a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms, and, in addition, our ability to enter into or maintain strategic relationships may be impacted by our divestiture plan. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our information and security services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, our ability to achieve future growth also depends on our ability to continue to establish direct seller channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. in addition, any changes by our channel partners to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure of one or more of our strategic or channel relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. failure of verisign affiliates to follow our security and trust practices or to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. we have licensed to verisign affiliates our processing center platform, which is designed to replicate our own secure data centers and allows the verisign affiliate to offer back-end processing of pki services for enterprises in the regions in which the affiliate operates. the verisign processing center platform provides a verisign affiliate with the knowledge and technology to offer pki services similar to those offered by us. it is critical to our business strategy that the facilities and infrastructure used in issuing and marketing digital certificates remain secure and we are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. although we provide the verisign affiliate with training in security and trust practices, network management and customer service and support, these practices are performed by the verisign affiliate and are outside of our control. any failure of a verisign affiliate to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could result in negative publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of our services as well as the security of e-commerce and communication over ip networks generally. 26 table of contents our verisign identity protection service depends in part on the acceptance of our services. the future growth of our vip services, which form a part of our ias business, depends in part on the commercial success and acceptance, and reliability of our vip services. our vip services will suffer if our target customers do not use our vip services. our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced vip services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our vip services or continue to use our vip services once adopted. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could suffer. we target our 3is segment at the market for trusted and secure e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks. our naming services business is developing managed services in emerging markets that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile handsets; demand for supply chain information services, including acceptance of the epcglobal network; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting e-commerce and communications over ip networks. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business would be materially harmed. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees, including key employees in the businesses we intend to divest. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain (particularly with respect to key employees in the businesses we intend to divest) and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the u.s. and abroad. all of the members of our senior management team and other key employees are at-will employees and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our senior management team members or key employees. the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees, including key employees in the businesses we intend to divest, or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. we recently experienced changes in our senior management team, and we may face difficulty in attracting and retaining permanent, qualified leadership personnel. during the second quarter of 2008, we appointed d. james bidzos, our chairman of the board, as president, chief executive officer and executive chairman, on an interim basis, and brian g. robins, our senior vice president, finance, to acting chief financial officer. in the first quarter of 2009, we appointed mark d. mclaughlin as our president and chief operating officer. the search for permanent replacements to fill the remaining positions may be a distraction to our interim executives, senior management, business partners, and 27 table of contents customers, and, although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to address the impact of these changes, there is a risk that such changes may impair our ability to meet our business objectives. during the period of transition following the appointment of an executive, there may be operational inefficiencies as our new management team becomes familiar with our business and operations. we cannot provide you with any assurance that the search for any permanent replacements will be successful, and if we cannot recruit (or experience delays in recruiting) qualified permanent replacements for any such positions, our business may suffer. compliance with rules and regulations concerning corporate governance is costly and could harm our business. ongoing compliance with the corporate governance requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act and the nasdaq stock market has increased the scope, complexity and cost of our corporate governance, reporting and disclosure practices, and our compliance efforts have required significant management attention. it is more difficult and more expensive for us to obtain director and officer liability insurance, and we have been required to accept reduced coverage and incur substantially higher costs to obtain the reduced level of coverage. further, our board members, chief executive officer and chief financial officer face an increased risk of personal liability in connection with the performance of their duties. as a result, we may have difficulty attracting and retaining qualified board members and executive officers, which could harm our business. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or our board of directors, and cannot be called by our stockholders; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board of directors can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists or a sole remaining director; and our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. verisign has also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial bloc of our common stock and may make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will generally become exercisable if a person or group acquires 20% or more of verisign outstanding common stock (unless such transaction is approved by our board of directors) and thus becomes an acquiring person. each right, when exercisable, will entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person, to acquire shares of verisign common stock at a 50% discount to the then-prevailing market price. as a result, the rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an acquiring person on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. 28 table of contents in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board of directors. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, the demand for our products and services might be substantially reduced and the ability to distribute our products successfully and the utilization of our services would be substantially diminished. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure you that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our security services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in naming services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the .info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .pro, .aero, .museum and .coop gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. icann currently has registry agreements with 14 registries for the operation of 16 gtlds. in addition, there are over 240 cctld registries. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolutions and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are ultradns, neulevel and afilias. 29 table of contents in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google and yahoo!. additional competition to our business may arise from the upcoming introduction of new internationalized domain name tlds ( idn tlds ) and new gtlds by icann. these new domain extensions could become available by the third quarter of 2009 in the form of translations or transliterated versions of the .com and .net tld and by the last quarter of 2009 in the form of new gtlds. we do not yet know the impact, if any, these new domain extensions may have on our business, but the increase of name availability in the marketplace could introduce new choices for end-users as well as create end-user confusion around brand preference, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. while we may apply for one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no certainty that we will ultimately be successful and even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no guarantee that such extensions will be any more successful than the domain name extensions obtained by our competitors. competition in ssl certificate services and ias: our ssl certificate services and ias are targeted at the rapidly evolving market for internet security services, including network security, authentication and validation, which enable secure e-commerce and communications over wireline and wireless ip networks. the market for ssl certificate services and ias is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product and service introductions and other market activities of industry participants. principal competitors generally fall within one of the following categories: (1) companies such as rsa, the security division of emc, and entrust technologies, which offer software applications and related digital certificate products that customers operate themselves; (2) companies such as digital signature trust company (a subsidiary of identrus) that primarily offer digital certificate and certification authority-related services; (3) companies focused on providing a bundled offering of products and services; and (4) companies offering competing ssl certificate and other security services, including domain name registrars. we also experience competition from a number of smaller companies, and we believe that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. furthermore, aol and microsoft have introduced software products that enable the issuance and management of digital certificates, and we believe that other companies could introduce similar products. in addition, browser companies that embed our interface technologies or otherwise feature them as a provider of digital certificate products and services in their web browsers or on their websites could also promote products and services of our competitors or charge us substantial fees for promotions in the future. competition in managed security services: security services and product firms, telecommunications companies, and consulting companies or professional services groups of other companies with internet expertise are current or potential competitors to our managed security services. these companies include large systems integrators and consulting firms, such as accenture and ibm global services, security product companies, such as symantec, and telecommunications providers, such as verizon business and bt counterpane. competition in communications services: the market for communications services is extremely competitive and subject to significant pricing pressure. competition in this area arises from two primary sources. incumbent carriers provide competing in-house services in their respective regions. in addition, we face direct competition from national, unregulated companies, including syniverse technologies, telcordia, neustar and other carriers such as southern new england telephone diversified group, a unit of at&amp;t. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third party providers, such as verisign, and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in commerce services: our wireless billing and payment services are also subject to competition from providers such as comverse, amdocs, convergys corporation and boston communications 30 table of contents group. we are also aware of major internet service providers, software developers and smaller entrepreneurial companies that are or may in the future be focusing significant resources on developing and marketing products and services that may compete directly with ours. furthermore, customers are increasingly likely to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services which may reduce the demand for technologies and services from third-party providers such as verisign and further increase competitive pricing pressures. competition in content services: the market for content services is extremely competitive. competitors include developers of content and entertainment products and services in a variety of domestic and international markets, such as infospace, itouch, arvato mobile, monstermob, and motricity. this business also faces competition from mobile network operators such as cingular, verizon wireless, sprint nextel corporation, t-mobile, vodafone, o2, orange, e-plus and telef&oacute;nica, as well as internet portal operators such as yahoo!, aol, t-online and google. additional competitors are handset manufacturers such as nokia and software providers such as microsoft and apple. as the market for wireless data, including information and entertainment data, matures, new categories of competitors, such as mobile phone companies, broadcasters, music publishers, other content providers or others have begun to develop competing products or services. competition in real-time publishing services: we face competition from various smaller companies providing similar services. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences. we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to our divestiture plan we may face difficulties and incur costs associated with our divestiture plan and our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. until the divestitures are complete, we will experience additional risks, including, but not limited to the disruption of our business and the potential loss of key employees; difficulties separating operations, services, products and personnel; and the potential damage to relationships with our existing customers. for example, our divestiture plan requires a substantial amount of management, administrative and operational resources. these demands may distract our employees from the day-to-day operation of verisign core businesses. there is also risk that we may incur additional charges associated with an impairment of a portion of goodwill and other intangible assets due to changes in market conditions for acquisitions and dispositions. under generally accepted accounting principles, we are required to evaluate goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, and to re-evaluate goodwill and to evaluate other intangible assets as events or circumstances indicate that such assets may be impaired. further, we are likely to incur income statement charges to complete the divestiture plan, which could be material. if we are unable to successfully address any of these risks for future dispositions, our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows could be adversely affected. 31 table of contents we may be unable to achieve some or all of the benefits we expect from the divestiture plan and such benefits may be delayed or not occur at all. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect from the divestiture of verisign non-core businesses. for example, we have encountered and may continue to encounter difficulties identifying buyers for certain businesses or be unable to sell businesses identified for divestiture, and there can be no assurance that analysts and investors will place greater value on verisign following the divestiture plan than the value placed on us pre-divestiture. in addition, there is no guarantee that the planned divestitures will occur or will not be further delayed. completion of the divestiture plan is subject to a number of factors, including: business, political and economic conditions in the u.s. and in other countries in which the company currently operates; governmental regulations and policies, actions and approvals of regulatory bodies; the operating performance of the company or the businesses or assets offered for sale; identification of buyers and negotiation of sale agreements; the willingness of buyers to assume certain liabilities associated with the businesses or assets offered for sale; our ability to identify and separate the assets associated with the businesses offered for sale from the core businesses we choose to retain; and the availability of financing or other sources of funding to buyers under reasonable terms and conditions. in the third quarter of 2008, management determined that due in large part to the downturn in the economy and the condition of the credit markets, the divestiture plan would take longer than originally expected. buyers continue to be more conservative, which makes it more difficult to consummate dispositions and has required some modifications to our original approach to individual dispositions. for example, some potential buyers have asked for more detailed financial information than we originally anticipated, which has increased the time and expense required to conduct the sale process. in addition, the condition in the credit markets has limited sources of financing for potential purchasers, which has affected the number of proposals we have received and prospective buyers ability to borrow the funds necessary to complete the purchase of our businesses being divested which has impacted the number of divestitures we have been successful in completing. these developments are having an adverse effect on the timing and our chances of completing the divesture plan. we may be adversely affected under certain covenants in our credit facility. the credit agreement governing our $500.0 million credit facility (the facility ) contains a negative covenant that limits our ability to sell assets and freely deploy the proceeds we receive from such sales, subject to exceptions based on the size and timing of the sales. therefore, depending on the size and timing of any dispositions that we decide to pursue as part of our divestiture plan, we may find it necessary to seek an amendment to our credit agreement or to structure the sales in a manner that complies with the covenant but that is potentially less favorable to the company than would otherwise be the case. there can be no guarantee that we will be successful in obtaining any such amendment on acceptable terms or at all or be able to structure potential dispositions accordingly. the facility and credit agreement are described in note 9, credit facility, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this form 10-k. we continue to be responsible for a portion of our contingent and other corporate liabilities following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with buyers for certain businesses divested under the divestiture plan, we remain liable for certain contingent and corporate liabilities. in addition, it is possible that we may enter into agreements with similar contingent and corporate liabilities in connection with future businesses we may divest. 32 table of contents there is a possibility that we will incur costs and expenses associated with the management of these contingent and other corporate liabilities. these contingent and other corporate liabilities could potentially relate to consolidated securities litigation, as well as actions brought by third parties as a result of the divestiture plan. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be shared with the buyer, it is possible that the buyer or another party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of the assumed obligations. following the divestiture of certain businesses, our ability to compete in certain market sectors is restricted. under the agreements reached with buyers for certain businesses divested under the divestiture plan, we are restricted from competing, either directly or indirectly, with those businesses or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time pursuant to negotiated non-compete arrangements. we expect that the company will be subject to similar restrictions with respect to other businesses as they are divested. risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2008, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 191.5 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 38.7 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures, due 2037 (the convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of long term debt outstanding. in addition to the convertible debentures, we have a facility with a borrowing capacity of $500.0 million. as of december 31, 2008, we had no outstanding borrowings under the facility and we had utilized $1.4 million of the $50.0 million limit for outstanding letters of credit. the availability of borrowing capacity under the facility allows us immediate access to working capital if we identify opportunities for the use of this cash. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. the facility is described in note 9, credit facility, of our notes to consolidated financial statements in item 15 of this form 10-k. we may not have the ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of convertible debentures, as required by the indenture governing the convertible debentures. holders of our outstanding convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture dated as of august 20, 2007 (the indenture ) between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee. although we currently intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash as required under the indenture, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, upon conversion of the 33 table of contents convertible debentures, we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the convertible debentures equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the convertible debentures being converted and the conversion value (as defined in the indenture) of those debentures. such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. a fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the convertible debentures or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default with respect to the convertible debentures. while we currently have the intent and ability to settle the principal in cash, if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings which may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. for example, in may 2008, the fasb issued fsp apb 14-1, accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement), that will significantly affect the accounting for convertible debt, including our convertible debentures. the fsp specifies that issuers of convertible debt instruments should separately account for the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components of such instruments in a manner that reflects the issuer non-convertible debt borrowing rate. in applying this fsp, the fasb emphasized that the fsp will be applied to the terms of the instruments as they existed for the time periods they existed, therefore, the application of the fsp will be applied retrospectively to all periods presented. the fsp is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008, and will be adopted by us in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. although fsp apb 14-1 will have no impact on our actual past or future cash flows, it will require us to record a significant amount of non-cash interest expense for fiscal 2007 through fiscal 2037 as the debt discount is amortized, assuming the convertible debentures will be settled upon maturity in 2037, associated with a significant reduction in our convertible debentures balance along with a corresponding increase in our stockholders equity as of december 31, 2007 and 2008. in addition, if our convertible debentures are redeemed or converted prior to maturity, any unamortized debt discount would result in a loss on extinguishment. as a result, there could be a material adverse impact on our results of operations and earnings per share. these impacts could adversely affect the trading price of our common stock and in turn negatively impact the trading price of the convertible debentures. certain other risks the following risks are primarily related to businesses we expect to divest as part of our divestiture plan. until our divestiture plan is complete, any one or more of these risks could have a significant impact on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, the materialization of any one or more of these risks could affect the timing of future dispositions, the price at which we dispose our businesses or whether we are able to dispose our businesses at all. our communications services business depends in part on the acceptance of our ss7 network and the telecommunications industry continuing use of ss7 technology. our future growth in our communications services business depends, in part, on the commercial success and reliability of our ss7 network. our communications services business will suffer if our target customers do not use our ss7 network. our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced ss7-based services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our particular ss7 network solution or continue to use our ss7 network. 34 table of contents the inability of our customers to successfully implement our signaling and network services with their existing systems could adversely affect our business. significant technical challenges exist in our signaling and network services business because many of our customers: purchase and implement ss7 network services in phases; deploy ss7 connectivity across a variety of telecommunication switches and routes; and integrate our ss7 network with a number of legacy systems, third-party software applications and engineering tools. customer implementation currently requires participation by our order management and our engineering and operations groups, each of which has limited resources. some customers may also require us to develop costly customized features or capabilities, which increases our costs and consumes a disproportionate share of our limited customer service and support resources. also, we typically charge one-time fees for initially connecting a customer to our ss7 network and a monthly recurring flat rate fee after the connection is established. if new or existing customers have difficulty deploying our products or require significant amounts of our engineering service support, we may experience reduced operating margins. our customers ability to deploy our network services to their own customers and integrate them successfully within their systems depends on our customers capabilities and the complexity involved. difficulty in deploying those services could reduce our operating margins due to increased customer support and could cause potential delays in recognizing revenues until the services are implemented. our failure to achieve or sustain market acceptance of our communications services at desired pricing levels and industry consolidation could adversely impact our revenues and cash flow. the telecommunications industry is characterized by significant price competition. competition and industry consolidation in the communications services market could result in significant pricing pressure and an erosion of our market share. pricing pressure from competition could cause large reductions in the selling price of our services. for example, our competitors may provide customers with reduced communications costs for internet access or private network services, reducing the overall cost of services and significantly increasing pricing pressures on us. we would need to offset the effects of any price reductions by increasing the number of our customers, generating higher revenues from enhanced services or reducing our costs, and we may not be able to do so successfully. we believe that the business of providing network connectivity and related network services will see increased consolidation in the future. consolidation could decrease selling prices and increase competition in these industries, which could erode our market share, revenues and operating margins in our communications services business. furthermore, customers may choose to deploy internally developed communications technologies and services thereby reducing the demand for technologies and services we offer which could harm our business. our content services business depends on agreements with many different third parties, including wireless carriers and content providers. if these agreements are terminated or not renewed, or are amended to require us to change the way our content services are offered to customers, our business could be harmed. our content services business depends on our ability to enter into and maintain agreements with many different third parties including wireless carriers and other mobile phone service providers, upon which this business is highly dependent for billing its customers. these agreements are typically for a short term, or are otherwise terminable upon short notice, and in the case of agreements with carriers, other mobile phone service providers and content developers, are nonexclusive. if these third parties reduce their commitment to us, terminate their agreements with us or enter into similar agreements with our competitors, our content services business could be materially harmed. 35 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 73 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk in the latter half of 2008, there was a major disruption in the global credit markets due to the rising concerns about possible financial institution defaults, the bankruptcy filing of lehman brothers holdings inc. ( lehman ) and the potential for a deep economic recession. following these disruptions, certain money market funds managed by the reserve made various announcements that their underlying portfolios had experienced a loss of principal, the redemption rights of all holders were suspended indefinitely and the funds would be liquidated. the loss of principal was primarily related to the underlying securities of lehman in the funds. at the time of the redemption suspension, we had $256.7 million invested in the primary fund and the international fund which we had previously classified as cash and cash equivalents and is now classified as prepaid expenses and other current assets. due to the lack of an active market for most corporate and bank debt securities, we assessed the fair value of the underlying securities within the primary fund and the international fund based on a review of current investment ratings of the underlying securities within the money-market funds coupled with an evaluation of the expected maturity value and the current performance of the securities within the funds in meeting scheduled payments of principal and interest. we based our estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of our investments in the primary fund and the international fund. during the third quarter of 2008, we recognized an other-than-temporary impairment loss of $8.2 million in other (loss) income, net, related to the underlying securities of lehman held in the primary fund and the international fund and the related liquidity risk in the investment. the credit and capital markets deteriorated significantly in 2008 and may continue to deteriorate into 2009. if these markets deteriorate further, or if we are allocated a portion of the legal and/or administrative costs incurred by the primary fund and/or the international fund during their liquidation process, we may incur additional impairments, which could negatively affect its financial position, cash flows and results of operations. the timing of additional distributions from these money market funds are currently subject to the discretion of the funds boards of directors, possible oversight by the sec and resolution of certain pending and possible future lawsuits against the reserve. during the fourth quarter of 2008, we received a distribution of $98.2 million from the primary fund. as of december 31, 2008, we had $150.3 million in the primary fund and the international fund. on january 30, 2009, we received $85.8 million from the reserve international fund and on february 20, we received $8.3 million from the reserve primary fund. the total distributions to date represents approximately 85% and 65% of our total investment in the primary fund and the international fund, respectively. 73 table of contents interest rate sensitivity we invest our cash primarily in money market funds. in general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2008, our cash and cash equivalents consisted primarily of money market funds. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. as we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. as of december 31, 2008, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations was not significant. at december 31, 2008, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $69.0 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. all forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would result in a decrease/increase in income of approximately $6 million. however, this would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign-currency denominated monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, due primarily to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. market risk management the fair market value of the convertible debentures issued by us and due august 2037, is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of the convertible debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the convertible debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2008, the fair value of the convertible debentures was approximately $812.5 million, based on quoted market prices. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on convertible debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the convertible debentures. 74 table of contentsrisk factors 14 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: the current global economic environment as well as its impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the communications and internet industries; volume of new domain name registrations and customer renewals in our naming services business; the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our authentication services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; changes in the payment structures of on-line advertising network providers and compensation levels, as well as policies proposed and implemented by icann, which could impact the number of domain name registrations; our success in marketing and market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services; continued development of our direct and indirect distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors products and services; the impact of decisions by channel partners and resellers to offer competing products or modify their marketing practices; the mix of all our services sold during a period; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services; potential attacks by hackers, which could threaten the perceived reliability of our products and services; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by enterprise customers; and the uncertainties, costs and risks related to our divestiture plan, including any income statement charges we incur in connection therewith and costs related to our transition services agreements. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you 14 table of contents should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our operating results may continue to be adversely affected by the current economic environment, unfavorable market and economic conditions. the current global economic environment may continue to have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations. the economic environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; our customers continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers ability to continue as going concerns; the ability of our customers to maintain their business; price competition for our products and services; the ability of our suppliers to continue to fill our orders; the price of our common stock; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and our ability to execute on any stock repurchase plans. in addition, to the extent that the economic environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the economic and market conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial position as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. our diversified business structure may result in significant fluctuations of our financial results. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks, and the extent to which digital certificates and domain names are used, for e-commerce and communications; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet and other ip networks; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; 15 table of contents our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing customers; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction of new products and services; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; and the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards and changing market conditions. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2009, we had 864 or 37% of our employees outside the u.s. expansion into international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into international markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars and some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies; difficulty in repatriating profits to the u.s.; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; the necessity of developing foreign language portals and products for our services; difficulty of authenticating customer information for digital certificates and other purposes; political instability; 16 table of contents failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. we have entered into hedging transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry which have been adversely impacted by the current economic environment. defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business and create potential liability. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and wireless communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business. for example, laws designed to restrict the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, on-line gambling, and cyber squatting and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, we are required to comply with state laws and regulations regarding certification authorities and if we fail to do so, we could lose the statutory benefits and protections that would otherwise be afforded to us. while we believe we currently have effective internal control over financial reporting, we may identify a material weakness in our internal controls over financial reporting that could cause investors to lose confidence in the reliability of our financial statements and result in a decrease in the value of our securities. we will continue to evaluate, upgrade and enhance our internal controls. because of inherent limitations, our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements, errors or omissions, including those caused by human error, the circumvention of overriding controls, the violation of company policies or practices (whether negligent or willful) or fraud, and any projections of any evaluation of effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate. we cannot be certain in future periods that other control deficiencies that may constitute one or more 17 table of contents significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting will not be identified. if we fail to maintain the adequacy of our internal controls, including any failure to implement or difficulty in implementing required new or improved controls, our business and results of operations could be harmed, the results of operations we report could be subject to adjustments, we could fail to be able to provide reasonable assurance as to our financial results or the effectiveness of our internal controls or meet our reporting obligations and there could be a material adverse effect on our business. issues arising from our agreements with icann and the doc could harm our registry business. the doc has adopted a plan for the phased transition of its responsibilities for the dns to icann. as part of this transition, we are parties to agreements with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com gtld and with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the .name and .net gtlds. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc and from the planned transition of the doc responsibilities for the dns to icann, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and .name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; under the affirmation of commitments entered into between icann and the doc effective october 1, 2009 (the affirmation of commitments ), the doc became one of several parties working together with other representative constituency members in providing an on-going review of icann performance and accountability. the affirmation of commitments provides for more defined international participation in this review. it is not known what, if any, role these review committees will play in the oversight of icann contracting process with various gtld providers including verisign, and they could make recommendations that are adverse to our business; one or more of the .com, .net, or .name registry agreements may not renew when they expire in 2011 ( .net ) and 2012 ( .com and .name ), which in the case of .com or .net , could have a material adverse effect on our business; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or .name gtlds and the doc could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement, in which case terminations of the .com or .net registry agreements could have a material adverse impact on our business; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our agreements with either of them could differ from ours; and our registry business could face legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars and registrants. in addition, under the .. com , . net and . name registry agreements, we are prohibited from holding a greater than 15% ownership interest in an icann accredited registrar. this prohibition on cross-ownership currently applies to all sixteen icann gtlds, but does not apply to cctlds. icann is currently considering allowing the vertical integration of registries and registrars in terms of partners and owners in the upcoming round of new gtld registries. this proposal is currently under review by the icann community and the timing and outcome is unknown. additionally, vertical integration of existing gtld registries may be considered by icann. if vertical integration is permitted, the impact to the distribution channel is uncertain but could have a material adverse effect on our business. 18 table of contents challenges to ongoing privatization of internet administration could harm our naming services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing privatization of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in dns administration; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. the affirmation of commitments, which calls for the establishment of multi-party review panels, contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to verisign. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our domain name registry business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions, which may not also apply to our competitors, on how this business is conducted. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the thirteen root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a non-regulated basis. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and data needed to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the top-level domains. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. consequently, our naming services business could be harmed if these independent operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our naming services business could be harmed if any of the independent operators fails to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls. in the event and to the extent that icann is authorized to set policy with regard to an authoritative root zone server system, as provided in our registry agreement with icann, it is required to ensure that the authoritative root will point to the top-level domain zone servers designated by us. if icann does not do this, our business could be harmed. changes in customer behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users navigate to a website either by directly typing in its domain name into a web browser or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet search engines changed the value of their algorithms on the use of a domain for finding a website; (iii) internet users were to shift away from direct navigation, or (iv) internet users increase the use of second or third level domains or alternate identifiers, the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on on-line advertising and/or the way that on-line networks compensate owners of websites, could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and 19 table of contents metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google and yahoo!, could adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants resulting in a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. as a result of the general economic environment, spending on on-line advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. services offered by our 3is segment rely on the continued integrity of public key cryptography technology and various hashing algorithms that may be compromised or proven obsolete over time. services offered by our 3is segment depend on public key cryptography technology. with public key cryptography technology, a user possesses a public key and a private key, both of which are required to perform encryption and decryption operations. the security afforded by this technology depends on the integrity of a user private key and ensuring that it is not lost, stolen or otherwise compromised. the integrity of private keys also depends in part on the application of specific mathematical principles known as factoring. this integrity is predicated on the assumption that the factoring of large numbers into their prime number components is difficult. should an easy factoring method or other method be developed making currently used asymmetric key sizes such as 1024, 2048 and 4096 bits inadequate, the security of encryption products utilizing public key cryptography technology may require significant modifications or would be reduced or eliminated. furthermore, any significant advance in techniques for attacking cryptographic systems could also render some or all of our existing pki services obsolete or unmarketable. likewise, hashing algorithms, such as sha1 or sha2, are also utilized in public key cryptography technology and as new methods of attacking these algorithms are created, they could render our pki services obsolete or unmarketable. if improved techniques for attacking cryptographic systems were ever developed that make attacks practical, we would likely have to reissue digital certificates to some or all of our customers, which could damage our reputation and brand or otherwise harm our business. in the past there have been public announcements of the successful attack upon cryptographic keys of certain kinds and lengths and of the potential misappropriation of private keys and other activation data. this type of publicity could also hurt the public perception as to the safety of the public key cryptography technology included in our digital certificates. this negative public perception could harm our business. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; 20 table of contents attacks by hackers; computer viruses or software defects; and physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in mountain view, california and kawasaki, japan (both of which are susceptible to earthquakes); new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; melbourne, australia; london, england; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to secondary or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from earthquakes or terrorism. in addition, our ability to issue ssl certificates, our domain name registry services and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our top-level domain name zone servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time. a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain confidential customer information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. our domain name registry operations also depend on our ability to maintain our computer and telecommunications equipment in effective working order and to reasonably protect our systems against interruption, and potentially depend on protection by other registrars in the shared registration system. the domain name root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware to our registry services operations. therefore, we may have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or similar disruptive problems. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. 21 table of contents we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our business would suffer if we lost the rights to use certain of these technologies. additionally, another party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could harm our business. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products, particularly with respect to our ssl certificates. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays or require us to develop non-infringing technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement was made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we are involved in a number of investigations, claims and lawsuits against us that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are involved in a number of investigations, claims and lawsuits. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in some or all of these investigations, claims and lawsuits may result in significant 22 table of contents monetary damages or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, these investigations, claims and lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management attention and resources from other matters. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our internet infrastructure and security services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, our ability to achieve future growth also depends on our ability to continue to establish direct seller channels and to develop multiple distribution channels. in addition, any changes by our channel partners to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, if one or more of our channel partners were to encounter financial difficulties, it could have a material adverse effect on our business. failure of one or more of our strategic or channel relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. failure of verisign affiliates to follow our security and trust practices or to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. we have licensed to verisign affiliates our processing center platform, which is designed to replicate our own secure data centers and allows the verisign affiliate to offer back-end processing of pki services for enterprises in the regions in which the verisign affiliate operates. the verisign processing center platform provides a verisign affiliate with the knowledge and technology to offer pki services similar to those offered by us. it is critical to our business strategy that the facilities and infrastructure used in issuing and marketing digital certificates remain secure and we are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. although we provide the verisign affiliate with training in security and trust practices, network management and customer service and support, these practices are performed by the verisign affiliate and are outside of our control. any failure of a verisign affiliate to maintain the privacy or security of confidential customer information could result in negative publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of our services as well as the security of e-commerce and telecommunication over ip networks generally. our verisign identity protection services depend in part on the acceptance of our services. the future growth of our vip services, which form a part of user authentication services, depends in part on the commercial success and acceptance, and reliability of our vip services. our vip services will suffer if our target customers do not use our vip services. our future financial performance will also depend on the successful development, introduction and customer acceptance of new and enhanced vip services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our vip services or continue to use our vip services even after adoption. 23 table of contents many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. we target our 3is segment at the market for trusted and secure e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks. our naming services business is developing managed services in emerging markets that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. our authentication services business is working to expand our portfolio of business and consumer based authentication solutions through the development of new services that build on or complement current offerings. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile handsets; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting e-commerce and telecommunications over ip networks. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the u.s. and abroad. all of the members of our senior management team and other key employees are at-will employees and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our senior management team members or key employees. the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees, or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors. these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or our board of directors, and cannot be called by our stockholders; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board of directors can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board of directors has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. 24 table of contents verisign has also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock and may make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will generally become exercisable if a person or group acquires 20% or more of verisign outstanding common stock (unless such transaction is approved by our board of directors) and thus becomes an acquiring person. each right, when exercisable, will entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person, to acquire shares of verisign common stock at a 50% discount to the then-prevailing market price. as a result, the rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an acquiring person on terms that our board of directors does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board of directors. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, as well as in the execution of our divestitures, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. in february 2010, the u.s. president administration announced various legislative proposals that could change the u.s. international tax laws. we are unable to predict whether these and other proposals will be implemented. we have not yet determined whether or the extent to which these proposals will ultimately impact verisign. risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, the demand for our products and 25 table of contents services might be substantially reduced and the ability to distribute our products successfully and the utilization of our services would be substantially diminished. new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure you that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in naming services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the .info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .pro, .aero, .museum and .coop gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. icann currently has registry agreements with 14 registries for the operation of 16 gtlds. in addition, there are over 240 cctld registries. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling and use of registrars that do not apply to cctlds and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolutions and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are neustar inc., afilias limited and nominum, inc. in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google inc., microsoft corporation, and yahoo! inc. additional competition to our business may arise from the upcoming introduction of new idn tlds and new gtlds by icann. on october 30, 2009, icann approved a fast track process for awarding of new idn tlds by the first half of 2010. other new domain extensions (including ones for which we could apply) could become available by the end of 2011. we do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new domain extensions may have on our business. while we may apply for one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no certainty that we will ultimately be successful and even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no guarantee that such extensions will be any more successful than the domain name extensions obtained by our competitors. competition in authentication services: our business authentication services and user authentication services are targeted at the rapidly evolving market for internet security services, including network security, authentication and validation, which enable secure e-commerce and telecommunications over wireline and wireless ip networks. principal competitors generally fall within one of the following categories: (1) companies such as rsa, the information security division of emc corporation, and entrust, inc., which offer software applications and related digital certificate products that customers operate themselves; (2) companies such as identrust, inc. which primarily offer digital certificate and certification authority-related services; (3) companies focused on providing a bundled offering of products and services; and (4) companies offering competing ssl certificate and other security services, including domain name registrars. the market for business authentication services and user authentication services is intensely competitive, subject to rapid change and significantly affected by new product and service introductions and other market activities of industry participants. we also experience competition from a number of smaller companies, and we believe that our primary long-term competitors may not yet have entered the market. furthermore, aol inc. and microsoft corporation have introduced software products that enable the issuance and management of digital certificates, and we believe that other companies could introduce similar products. if these or other companies introduce new products or services that compete with our authentication services, our business could be materially harmed. 26 table of contents in addition, browser companies that embed our interface technologies or otherwise feature them as a provider of digital certificate products and services in their web browsers or on their websites could also promote products and services of our competitors or charge us substantial fees for promotions in the future. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences, or launch entirely new products and services in anticipation of market trends. we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to our divestiture plan we continue to be responsible for certain liabilities and transition services following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with the buyers of certain businesses divested under the divestiture plan, we remain liable for certain liabilities related to the divested businesses. in addition, we have entered into, and may in the future amend or extend, transition services agreements with buyers in connection with the divestiture of certain businesses. these transition services may be required for a longer period of time than anticipated by management. in addition, we have agreed to perform certain transition services for a fixed price or for fixed hourly rates, but our actual costs to provide such services may exceed the fees buyers are contractually obligated to pay us under the relevant transition services agreements. there is a possibility that we will incur costs and expenses associated with the management of liabilities related to the businesses we have divested, including requests for indemnification by buyers. these liabilities could potentially relate to (i) breaches of contractual representations and warranties we gave to buyers of the divested businesses, or (ii) certain liabilities relating to the divested businesses which we retained under the agreements reached with buyers of the divested businesses. such liabilities include certain litigation matters, including actions brought by third parties. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be contractually allocated to the buyer or shared with the buyer or another party, it is possible that the buyer or the other party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of those obligations. following the divestiture of certain businesses, our ability to compete in certain market sectors is restricted. under the agreements reached with buyers for certain businesses divested under the divestiture plan, we are restricted from competing, either directly or indirectly, with those businesses or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time pursuant to negotiated non-compete arrangements. risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2009, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 183.3 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 29.3 million common shares were reserved for 27 table of contents issuance pursuant to outstanding employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 (the convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of long term debt outstanding. in addition to the convertible debentures, we have a credit facility ( facility ) with a borrowing capacity of $500.0 million. as of december 31, 2009, we had no outstanding borrowings under the facility and we had utilized $1.7 million of the $50.0 million limit for outstanding letters of credit. the availability of borrowing capacity under the facility allows us immediate access to working capital if we identify opportunities for the use of this cash. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities. we may not have the ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of convertible debentures, as required by the indenture governing the convertible debentures. holders of our outstanding convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture dated as of august 20, 2007 (the indenture ) between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee. although we currently intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash as required under the indenture, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible debentures, we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the convertible debentures equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the convertible debentures being converted and the conversion value (as defined in the indenture) of those debentures. such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. a fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the convertible debentures or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default with respect to the convertible debentures. while we currently have the intent and ability to settle the principal in cash, if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings which may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. new accounting pronouncements could, when adopted, require us to implement different accounting methods which could have a material adverse impact on future or past results of operations, which could in turn materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 63 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we invest our cash primarily in money market funds. in general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. as of december 31, 2009, our cash and cash equivalents consisted primarily of money market funds. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. as we continue to expand our international operations we are increasingly exposed to currency exchange rate risks. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. as of december 31, 2009, our exposure to foreign currency fluctuations was not significant. at december 31, 2009, we held forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $79.2 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. all forward contracts are recorded at fair market value. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would result in a decrease/increase in income of approximately $7.4 million. however, this would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign-currency denominated monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, due primarily to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. 63 table of contents market risk management the fair market value of the convertible debentures issued by us and due august 2037, is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of the convertible debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the convertible debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2009, the fair value of the convertible debentures was approximately $1.1 billion, based on quoted market prices. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on convertible debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the convertible debentures. 64 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: the current global economic environment as well as its impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the communications and internet industries; volume of new domain name registrations and customer renewals in our naming services businesses; the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; our success in direct marketing, and, in the case of our registry services business, the scope and success of marketing efforts by third-party registrars, and market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services, and in the case of our registry services business, the customers of the distributors of our services; continued development of our distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors products and services; the impact of decisions by distributors to offer competing products or modify or cease their marketing practices; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services or changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing services provided by third-party registrars or their resellers; potential attacks by nefarious actors, which could threaten the perceived reliability of our products and services; potential attacks on the service offerings of our distributors, such as ddos attacks, which could limit the availability of their service offerings and their ability to offer our products and services; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by our customers; and the uncertainties, costs and risks as a result of the sale of our authentication services business, including any income statement charges we incur in connection therewith and costs related to our transition services agreements and any retained liability related to existing and future claims or retained litigation. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. 12 table of contents due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of the sluggish economic recovery, unfavorable market and economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations. the economic, social and political environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and our ability to execute on any stock repurchase plans. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the economic, social, political and market conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial position as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. we may experience significant fluctuations in our financial results. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks, and the extent to which domain names are used for e-commerce and communications; changes in customer behavior, internet platforms and web-browsing patterns; growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet and other ip networks; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; 13 table of contents our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing distributors and customers; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction, and acceptance by our customers, of new products and services, including our nia services; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; and the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards and changing market conditions. issues arising from our agreements with icann and the doc could harm our registry services business. we are parties to agreements (i) with the doc with respect to certain aspects of the dns, (ii) with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com gtld and (iii) with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the .net and .name gtlds. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc, including the following: icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and .name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; one or both of the .com or .net registry agreements may not renew when they expire in 2011 ( .net ) and 2012 ( .com ), which could have a material adverse effect on our business; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or .name gtlds and the doc could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement, which, in the case of the .com and .net registry agreements, could have a material adverse impact on our business; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our registry agreements with either of them could differ from ours; and our registry services business faces, and could continue to face legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars and registrants, and any adverse outcome from such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, under the . com , . net and . name registry agreements, we are prohibited from holding a greater than 15% ownership interest in any icann accredited registrar. this prohibition on cross-ownership currently applies to all seventeen icann gtlds, but does not apply to cctlds. icann has proposed allowing the operators of new gtlds to also own, be owned 100% by, or otherwise be affiliated with, a registrar. if this proposal is adopted, the impact to the distribution channel is uncertain but could have a material adverse effect on our business. challenges to internet administration could harm our registry services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing operation of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in dns administration; and 14 table of contents some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. the affirmation of commitments established several multi-party review panels and contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight and review of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to verisign. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our registry services business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted, which may not also apply to our competitors. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2010, we had 167, or 16% of our employees outside the u.s. expansion into international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as a small portion of our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars and some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies; high costs associated with repatriating profits to the u.s.; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; 15 table of contents additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. we have entered into hedging transactions with counterparties in the financial services industry which have been adversely impacted by the current economic environment. defaults by, and even rumors or questions about the solvency of, certain financial institutions and the financial services industry generally have led to market-wide liquidity problems and could lead to losses or defaults by other institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2010, we had $2.1 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $501.2 million was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury and other u.s. government corporations and agencies, corporate debt securities, and debt securities issued by foreign governments meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the euro-zone crisis, which has affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. over the past several years, the volatility and disruption in the global credit market reached unprecedented levels. if the global credit market does not improve or deteriorates further, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our financial results. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register domain names, the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, on-line gambling, counterfeit goods, and cyber squatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have a number of contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and even though these contracts are immaterial, they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, that could be significant to the company. 16 table of contents due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. we may be exposed to potential risks if we were to determine we do not have an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial reporting. as a public company, the company is subject to the rules and regulations of the sec, including those that require the company to report on and receive an attestation from its independent registered public accounting firm regarding the company internal control over financial reporting. as a result of the transitioning of key corporate functions to our dulles, virginia office and potential voluntary employee attrition, there is an increased risk of our failing to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal controls over financial procedures, including satisfaction of the requirements of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. although we believe that we have adequately planned to address this risk, despite our efforts, if we were to fail to maintain an effective system of disclosure controls or internal control over financial reporting, we may not be able to accurately or timely report on our financial results or adequately identify and reduce fraud. as a result, the financial position of the company could be harmed and current and potential future stockholders could lose confidence in us and/or our reported financial results, which may cause a negative effect on our stock price; and we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, which may be costly or divert management attention. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the thirteen root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a non-regulated basis. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and data needed to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the top-level domains. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. consequently, our registry services business could be harmed if these independent operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our registry services business could be harmed if any of the independent operators fails to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls. changes in customer behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet search engines changed the value of their algorithms on the use of a domain for finding a website; (iii) internet users were to shift away from direct navigation; (iv) internet users were to increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content or (v) internet users were to increase the use of second or third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking sites, in each case the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on on-line advertising and/or the way that on-line networks compensate owners of websites, could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and 17 table of contents metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google and yahoo!, could adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants resulting in a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. as a result of the general economic environment, spending on on-line advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks by hackers or nefarious actors; computer viruses or software defects; and physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to secondary or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage and business interruption, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our top-level domain name zone servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back up services recommended by us in conformance with industry best practices, a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or 18 table of contents update of the master database that we maintain could also result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain customer information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the shared registration system, the domain name root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware and software to our registry services operations. therefore, we may have to expend significant time and money to maintain or increase the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over ip networks as well as of the security or reliability of our services. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our business would suffer if we lost the rights to use certain of these technologies. additionally, another party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain, any of these technology licenses could harm our business. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. 19 table of contents we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. the international launch of the new logo for the company could present additional potential risks for third party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement was made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we are involved in a number of claims, lawsuits and investigations against us that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are involved in a number of claims, lawsuits and investigations which we currently believe are immaterial but could prove material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. in addition, certain parties to litigation to which we are a party may be entitled to indemnification by us. adverse outcomes in some or all of these claims, lawsuits and investigations may result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. additionally, these investigations, claims and lawsuits may involve significant expense and diversion of management attention and resources from other matters. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts, including in international markets. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our services than we would otherwise. our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, any changes by our distributors to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, if one or more of our distributors were to encounter financial difficulties, or if there were a significant reduction in marketing expenditures by our distributors (including registrars), as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a decrease in domain name registrations and renewals. failure of one or more of our strategic, channel or other relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. 20 table of contents the success of our nia services depend in part on the acceptance of our services. we are investing in our nia services, and the future growth of these services depends, in part, on the commercial success, acceptance, and reliability of our nia services. these services will suffer if our target customers do not adopt or use these services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our nia services or continue to use these services even after adoption. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. our registry services and nia services businesses are developing services in emerging markets, including services that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting internet access and availability, e-commerce and telecommunications over ip networks. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. we depend on key personnel to manage our business effectively and may not be successful in attracting and retaining such personnel. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing personnel, both in the u.s. and abroad. all of the members of our senior management team and other u.s. key employees are at-will employees and we do not maintain key person life insurance for any of our senior management team members or key employees. the loss of the services of any of our senior management team or other key employees, or failure to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate additional key employees could harm our business. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or our board, and cannot be called by our stockholders; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; 21 table of contents vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. verisign has also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock and may make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will generally become exercisable if a person or group acquires 20% or more of verisign outstanding common stock (unless such transaction is approved by our board) and thus becomes an acquiring person. each right, when exercisable, will entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person, to acquire shares of verisign common stock at a 50% discount to the then-prevailing market price. as a result, the rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an acquiring person on terms that our board does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, as well as in the execution of our divestitures, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. our inability to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations. deferred income taxes have not been provided on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries because these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested and we do not plan to initiate any action that would precipitate the payment of income taxes thereon. we consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment: the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of the parent and subsidiaries for both the long and short term; the tax consequences of a decision to reinvest; and any u.s. and foreign government programs designed to influence remittances. if factors change and as a result we are unable to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings, the income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from the current period and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. 22 table of contents risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure you that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in registry services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the .info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .pro, .aero, .museum and .coop gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. icann currently has registry agreements with 15 registries for the operation of 17 gtlds. in addition, there are over 240 latin script cctld registries and 16 idn cctld registries. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling and use of registrars that do not apply to cctlds and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are neustar inc., afilias limited and nominet uk, inc. in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google inc., microsoft corporation, and yahoo! inc. furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and phone applications. additional competition to our business may arise from the introduction of new tlds by icann. these include idn tlds and the upcoming introduction of new gtlds by icann. on october 30, 2009, icann approved a fast track process for the awarding of new idn cctlds and such new idn cctlds have started to be introduced into the root. other new domain extensions (including ones for which we could apply) could become available by the end of 2012. we do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new domain extensions may have on our business. applicants for such new tlds may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. furthermore, icann has proposed allowing the operators of new gtlds to also own, be owned 100% by or otherwise affiliated with a registrar, whereas verisign is currently prohibited by its agreements with icann and the department of commerce from owning more than 15% of a registrar. as a result, operators of new gtlds may be able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration. while we may apply for one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no certainty that we will ultimately be successful, and even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no guarantee that such extensions will be any more successful than the domain name extensions obtained by our competitors. competition in network intelligence and availability services: several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully. 23 table of contents we face competition in the network intelligence and availability services industry from companies such as isight partners, security services x-force threat analysis service, secunia aps, secureworks, inc., mcafee, inc., prolexic technologies, inc., at&amp;t inc., verizon communications, inc., dyn, inc. dynect platform, neustar ultra services, opendns, bluecat networks, inc., infoblox inc., nominum, inc. and afilias limited. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences, or launch entirely new products and services in anticipation of market trends. we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to the sale of our authentication services business and the completion of our divestiture plan our suite of products and services is less diverse following the sale of our authentication services business. we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expected from the sale of our authentication services business. following the sale of the authentication services business, our registry services business, which derives most of its revenues from registration fees for domain names, generates substantially all of our revenue. if there is a disruption in the registry services business, including any disruption from changes in the domain name industry, changes in or challenges to our agreements with icann, including any changes resulting from legal challenges to these agreements, from the coalition for icann transparency, inc. ( cfit ) or otherwise, changes in customer preferences, a downturn in the economy or changes in technology related to the use of domain names, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, a failure of either or both of the .com or .net registry agreements to renew on the same or similar terms when they expire in 2011 ( .net ) and 2012 ( .com ) could have a material adverse effect on our business. we face risks related to the terms of the sale of the authentication services business. under the agreement reached with symantec for the sale of our authentication services business (the symantec agreement ), we agreed to several terms that may pose risks to us, including the potential for confusion by the public with respect to symantec right to use certain of our trademarks, brand and website, as well as the risk that current or potential investors in the company or customers may incorrectly attribute to verisign problems with symantec products or services that are currently operated under the verisign brand pursuant to licensing agreements with symantec. this may have a negative impact on our reputation, our brand and the market for our products and services. we are at risk that we will be unable to register, build equity in, or enforce the new logo for the company. in addition, we may determine that certain assets transferred to symantec could have been useful in our naming services businesses or in other future endeavors, requiring us to forego future opportunities or design or purchase alternatives which could be costly and less effective than the transferred assets. under the terms of the symantec agreement, we have licensed rights to certain of our websites and domain name registrations to symantec. we are at risk that our customers will go to the licensed websites and be unable to locate our nia services. in addition, we will continue to maintain the registration rights for the domain names licensed to symantec for which symantec has sole control over the content, and we may be subject to claims of infringement if symantec posts content that is alleged to infringe the rights of a third party. we may also face expenditures to procure registration rights to other domain names for our naming services, many of which may be owned by third parties. 24 table of contents we are at risk of increased levels of employee attrition following the sale of our authentication services business. although we believe that we have retained sufficient senior management and other employees to perform various functions at the company, we are at risk of experiencing increased levels of employee attrition from employees scheduled to be transitioned out of the company now that the sale of the authentication services business has closed, and we may encounter difficulty recruiting and hiring competent personnel to replace any key personnel who voluntarily terminate their employment with us. if we are unable to replace employees quickly, we may be forced to hire temporary labor for assistance in the short term at higher rates than the salaried employees. in addition, it may take new personnel a significant period of time to understand and become familiar with company processes. the failure to replace our departing personnel, if any, in a timely manner could result in our inability to perform various important functions, including completing our sec filings, and could impair our ability to execute our business strategy, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. we are transitioning key corporate functions from our california office to our virginia office. we may encounter difficulties and face risks as we transition key corporate functions from our mountain view, california office to our dulles, virginia office, including our ability to timely complete our financial reporting, the impact on key corporate support functions, and our ability to attract and retain qualified employees. in addition, the large number of personnel displacements could impair employee morale and create a distraction for employees, which could harm our business. we continue to be responsible for certain liabilities and transition services following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with the buyers of certain divested businesses, including the authentication services business, we remain liable for certain liabilities related to the divested businesses. in addition, we have entered into, and may in the future amend or extend, transition services agreements with buyers in connection with the divestiture of certain businesses, including the authentication services business. these transition services may be required for a longer period of time than anticipated by management. in addition, we have agreed to perform certain transition services for a fixed price or for fixed hourly rates, but our actual costs to provide such services may exceed the fees buyers are contractually obligated to pay us under the relevant transition services agreements. the scope and magnitude of the transition services we have agreed to provide in connection with the sale of the authentication services business are greater than those provided under our divestiture plan, and we may face challenges performing such transition services, including that the focus of employees and resources supporting the transition services may impact their ability to support our existing businesses. there is a possibility that we will incur unanticipated costs and expenses associated with management of liabilities relating to the businesses we have divested, including requests for indemnification by the buyers of the divested businesses. these liabilities could potentially relate to (i) breaches of contractual representations and warranties we gave to the buyers of the divested businesses, or (ii) certain liabilities relating to the divested businesses which we retained under the agreements reached with the buyers of the divested businesses. such liabilities could include certain litigation matters, including actions brought by third parties. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be contractually allocated to the buyer or shared with the buyer or another party, it is possible that the buyer or the other party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of those obligations. following the divestiture of certain businesses, our ability to compete in certain market sectors is restricted. under the agreements reached with buyers for certain businesses we divested, including the authentication services business, we are restricted from competing, either directly or indirectly, with those businesses or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time pursuant to negotiated non-compete arrangements. 25 table of contents risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2010, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 172.7 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 23.5 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 (the convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. we may not have the ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of convertible debentures, as required by the indenture governing the convertible debentures. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of long term debt outstanding. holders of our outstanding convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture dated as of august 20, 2007 (the indenture ) between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee. although we currently intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash as required under the indenture, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible debentures, we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the convertible debentures equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the convertible debentures being converted and the conversion value (as defined in the indenture) of those debentures. such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could also adversely affect our ability to take advantage of corporate opportunities. a fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the convertible debentures or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default with respect to the convertible debentures. while we currently have the intent and ability to settle the principal in cash, if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. there may be potential new accounting pronouncements or regulatory rulings which may have an impact on our future financial position and results of operations. new accounting pronouncements could, when adopted, require us to implement different accounting methods which could have a material adverse impact on future or past results of operations, which could in turn materially adversely affect the trading price of our common stock. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity we invest in a variety of securities, including money market funds, debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury and other u.s. government corporations and agencies, corporate debt securities, and debt securities issued by foreign governments. the primary objective of our short-term investment management activities is to preserve principal with the additional goals of maintaining appropriate liquidity and earning an after-tax return commensurate with the risks associated in each portfolio. we manage our interest rate risk by maintaining an investment portfolio generally consisting of debt instruments of high credit quality. we monitor our interest rate and credit risks, including our credit exposures to specific rating categories and to individual issuers. we invest in investment grade marketable fixed income securities. 57 table of contents in general, money market funds are not considered to be subject to interest rate risk because the interest paid on such funds fluctuates with the prevailing interest rate. notwithstanding our efforts to manage interest rate risks, there can be no assurance that we will be adequately protected against risks associated with interest rate fluctuations. at any time, a sharp change in interest rates could have a significant impact on the fair value of our investment portfolio. the following table presents the hypothetical changes in fair value of our fixed income securities in our short-term investment portfolio as of december 31, 2010, arising from potential changes in interest rates. the modeling technique estimates the change in fair value from immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus or minus 50 basis points ( bps ), 100 bps, and 150 bps. valuation of securities given an interest rate decrease of x basis points fair value as of december 31, 2010 valuation of securities given an interest rate increase of x basis points (150 bps) (100 bps) (50 bps) 50 bps 100 bps 150 bps (in thousands) fixed income securities $ 518,716 $ 514,323 $ 509,931 $ 505,538 $ 501,146 $ 496,753 $ 492,361 foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts and in each case these contracts are limited to a duration of less than 12 months. our foreign currency forward contracts are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2010, we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $50.7 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would result in a decrease/increase in income of approximately $4.9 million. however, this would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. there are inherent limitations in the sensitivity analysis presented, due primarily to the assumption that foreign exchange rate movements are linear and instantaneous. as a result, the analysis is unable to reflect the potential effects of more complex market changes that could arise, which may positively or negatively affect income. 58 table of contents market risk management the fair market value of our convertible debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of the convertible debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the convertible debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2010, the fair value of the convertible debentures was approximately $1.4 billion, based on quoted market prices. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on convertible debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the convertible debentures. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors in addition to other information in this form 10-k, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this form 10-k as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this form 10-k and in other filings we make with the sec. risks relating to our business our operating results may fluctuate and our future revenues and profitability are uncertain. our operating results have varied in the past and may fluctuate significantly in the future as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. these factors include the following: current global economic and financial conditions as well as their impact on e-commerce, financial services, and the communications and internet industries; volume of new domain name registrations and customer renewals in our naming services businesses; the long sales and implementation cycles for, and potentially large order sizes of, some of our services and the timing and execution of individual customer contracts; our success in direct marketing and promotional campaigns; in the case of our registry services business, any changes to the scope and success of marketing efforts by third-party registrars; market acceptance of our services by our existing customers and by new customers; customer renewal rates and turnover of customers of our services, and in the case of our registry services business, the customers of the distributors of our services; continued development of our distribution channels for our products and services, both in the u.s. and abroad; the impact of price changes in our products and services or our competitors products and services; the impact of decisions by distributors to offer competing or replacement products or modify or cease their marketing practices; the availability of alternatives to our products; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; changes in marketing expenses related to promoting and distributing our services or services provided by third-party registrars or their resellers; potential attacks, including hacktivism, by nefarious actors, which could threaten the perceived reliability of our products and services; potential attacks on the service offerings of our distributors, such as distributed denial-of-service ( ddos ) attacks, which could limit the availability of their service offerings and their ability to offer our products and services; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events or armed conflict; changes in the level of spending for information technology-related products and services by our customers; and 11 table of contents the uncertainties, costs and risks as a result of the sale of our authentication services business, including costs related to our transition services agreements and any retained liability related to existing and future claims or retained litigation. our operating expenses may increase. if an increase in our expenses is not accompanied by a corresponding increase in our revenues, our operating results will suffer, particularly as revenues from some of our services are recognized ratably over the term of the service, rather than immediately when the customer pays for them, unlike our sales and marketing expenditures, which are expensed in full when incurred. due to all of the above factors, our revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future periods. if this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline. our operating results may continue to be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. an unstable global economic, social and political environment may have a negative impact on demand for our services, our business and our foreign operations, including the ongoing hostilities in the middle east, natural disasters, the eurozone crisis and the u.s. debt ceiling crisis. the economic, social and political environment has or may negatively impact, among other things: our customers continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services; current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers; price competition for our products and services; the price of our common stock; our liquidity; our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations; our ability to obtain payment for outstanding debts owed to us by our customers or other parties with whom we do business; and our ability to execute on any share repurchase plans. in addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may further negatively impact our business. if the market, economic, social and political conditions in the u.s. and globally do not improve, or if they further deteriorate, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results and financial position as a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. we may experience significant fluctuations in our financial results. the successful operation of our business depends on numerous factors, many of which are not entirely under our control, including, but not limited to, the following: the use of the internet and other ip networks, and the extent to which domain names and the dns are used for e-commerce and communications; changes in customer behavior, internet platforms, mobile devices and web-browsing patterns; 12 table of contents growth in demand for our services; the competition for any of our services; the perceived security of e-commerce and communications over the internet; the perceived security of our services, technology, infrastructure and practices; the loss of customers through industry consolidation or customer decisions to deploy in-house or competitor technology and services; our continued ability to maintain our current, and enter into additional, strategic relationships; our ability to successfully market our services to new and existing distributors and customers; our success in attracting, integrating, training, retaining and motivating qualified personnel; our response to competitive developments; the successful introduction, and acceptance by our customers, of new products and services, including our nia services; potential disruptions in regional registration behaviors due to catastrophic natural events and armed conflict; seasonal fluctuations in business activity; our ability to implement remedial actions in response to any attacks by nefarious actors; and the successful introduction of enhancements to our services to address new technologies and standards, alternatives to our products and services and changing market conditions. issues arising from our agreements with icann, the doc and the gsa could harm our registry services business. we are parties to agreements (i) with the doc with respect to certain aspects of the dns, (ii) with icann and the doc as the exclusive registry of domain names within the .com gtld and (iii) with icann with respect to being the exclusive registry for the .net and .name gtlds. we face risks arising from our agreements with icann and the doc, including the following: the .com registry agreement may not renew when it expires in 2012, which could have a material adverse effect on our business; icann could adopt or promote policies, procedures or programs that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of the .com , .net and .name gtlds, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, or that affect our competitive position; under certain circumstances, icann could terminate one or more of our agreements to be the registry for the .com , .net or .name gtlds and the doc could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the .com registry agreement, which, in the case of the .com and .net registry agreements, could have a material adverse impact on our business; the doc or icann interpretation of provisions of our registry agreements with either of them could differ from ours; under certain circumstances, the gsa could terminate our agreement to be the registry for the .gov gtld, which could have a material adverse impact on how the registry services business is perceived; and our registry services business faces, and could continue to face, legal or other challenges resulting from our activities or the activities of registrars and registrants, and any adverse outcome from such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business. 13 table of contents in addition, under the . com , . net and . name registry agreements, as well as the cooperative agreement with the doc, we are prohibited from holding a greater than 15% ownership interest in any icann accredited registrar. this prohibition on cross-ownership currently applies to all eighteen icann gtlds, but does not apply to cctlds. icann has adopted a proposal to allow the operators of new gtlds to also own, be owned 100% by, or otherwise be affiliated with, a registrar. the impact of these changes to the distribution channel is uncertain but could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, icann has also adopted a procedure pursuant to which an operator of one of the existing eighteen icann gtlds can apply to remove the cross-ownership restrictions with respect to new, but not existing gtlds. if verisign were to seek removal of the cross-ownership restriction with respect to new gtlds, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc approval would be obtained. substantially all of our revenue is derived from our registry services business. our registry services business, which derives most of its revenues from registration fees for domain names, generates substantially all of our revenue. if there is a disruption in the registry services business, including any disruption from changes in the domain name industry, changes in or challenges to our agreements with icann, including any changes resulting from legal challenges to these agreements, changes in customer preferences, a downturn in the economy or changes in technology related to the use of domain names, there may be a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, a failure of the .com registry agreement to renew on the same or similar terms when it expires in 2012 could have a material adverse effect on our business. challenges to internet administration could harm our registry services business. risks we face from challenges by third parties, including governmental authorities in the u.s. and other countries, to our role in the ongoing operation of the internet include: legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought, including challenges to the agreements governing our relationship with the doc or icann, or to the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of the doc, icann or us; the u.s. congress could take action that is unfavorable to us; icann could fail to maintain its role, potentially resulting in instability in dns administration; and some governments and governmental authorities outside the u.s. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of icann, the u.s. government and us relating to the dns. the affirmation of commitments established several multi-party review panels and contemplates a greater involvement by foreign governments and governmental authorities in the oversight and review of icann. these periodic review panels may take positions that are unfavorable to verisign. as a result of these and other risks, it may be difficult for us to introduce new services in our registry services business and we could also be subject to additional restrictions on how this business is conducted, which may not also apply to our competitors. our international operations subject our business to additional economic risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. as of december 31, 2011, we had 117, or 12%, of our employees outside the u.s. expansion into international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. we may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. we have limited experience in localizing our services and in developing international distribution or operating relationships. we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. failure to do so could harm our business. moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the u.s. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business 14 table of contents practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or u.s. law or regulations applicable to us. there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. violations of laws, regulations or key control policies by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. in addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate; differing and uncertain regulatory requirements; legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts and compliance with foreign laws; tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; longer sales and payment cycles; problems in collecting accounts receivable; currency fluctuations, as a small portion of our international revenues are not always denominated in u.s. dollars and some of our costs are denominated in foreign currencies; high costs associated with repatriating profits to the u.s.; potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries; difficulty of verifying customer information; political instability; failure of foreign laws to protect our u.s. proprietary rights adequately; more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries; export and import restrictions on cryptographic technology and products incorporating that technology; additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting u.s. interests abroad; seasonal reductions in business activity; and potentially adverse tax consequences. we are exposed to risks faced by financial institutions. the hedging transactions we have entered into expose us to credit risk in the event of default by one of our counterparties. despite the risk control measures we have in place, a default by one of our counterparties, or liquidity problems in the financial services industry in general, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. as of december 31, 2011, we had $1.4 billion in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which $32.9 million was invested in marketable securities. the marketable securities consist of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury and other u.s. government corporations and agencies meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. we currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. 15 table of contents these investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by unusual events, such as the eurozone crisis and the u.s. debt ceiling crisis, which have affected various sectors of the financial markets and led to global credit and liquidity issues. over the past several years, the volatility and disruption in the global credit market reached unprecedented levels. if the global credit market deteriorates further, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our financial results. governmental regulation and the application of existing laws may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. application of new and existing laws and regulations to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. the costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. for example, laws designed to restrict who can register domain names, the on-line distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, on-line gambling (especially as we consider providing nia services to this sector), counterfeit goods, and cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. we have contracts pursuant to which we provide services to the u.s. government and even though these contracts are immaterial, they impose compliance costs, including compliance with the federal acquisition regulation, which could be significant to the company. due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. we might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified and new laws may be enacted in the future. any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. in addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. we rely on third parties who maintain and control root zone servers and route internet communications. we currently administer and operate only two of the thirteen root zone servers. the others are administered and operated by independent operators on a non-regulated basis. root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the dns hierarchy. these servers have the software and data needed to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the top-level domains. these root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet. consequently, our registry services business could be harmed if these independent operators fail to maintain these servers properly or abandon these servers, which would place additional capacity demands on the two root zone servers we operate. further, our registry services business could be harmed if any of the independent operators fails to include or provide accessibility to the data that it maintains in the root zone servers that it controls, or presents inconsistent data for the top-level domains. changes in customer behavior, either as a result of evolving technologies or user practices, may impact the demand for domain names. currently, internet users navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser or through the use of a search engine. if (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet search engines changed the value of their algorithms on the use of a domain for finding 16 table of contents a website; (iii) internet users preferences or practices were to shift away from direct navigation; (iv) internet users were to increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content; or (v) internet users were to increase the use of second or third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names could decrease. changes in the level of spending on on-line advertising and/or the way that on-line networks compensate owners of websites could impact the demand for domain names. some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as google and yahoo!, could adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants resulting in a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. in addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on on-line advertising and marketing may not increase as projected or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. consolidation or changes in ownership or management among third-party registrars could result in reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could harm our registry services business. third-party registrars utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names. consolidation in the registrar industry or changes in ownership or management among individual registrars could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names. our registry services business, which generates substantially all of our revenue, derives most of its revenues from registrations and renewals of domain names, and decreased demand for and/or renewals of domain names could cause a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. undetected or unknown defects in our services could harm our business and future operating results. services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or warranty claims, increased insurance costs or increased service and warranty costs, any of which could harm our business. the performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as on third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. furthermore, we often provide implementation, customization, consulting and other technical services in connection with the implementation and ongoing maintenance of our services, which typically involves working with sophisticated software, computing and communications systems. our failure or inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. if we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures; damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters; attacks, including hacktivism, by hackers or nefarious actors; 17 table of contents computer viruses or software defects; physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks and other events beyond our control; state suppression of internet operations; and any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption. most of our systems are located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in new castle, delaware; dulles, virginia; and fribourg, switzerland. to the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for interruptions or potential losses arising from terrorism. in addition, our registry services business and certain of our other services depend on the efficient operation of the internet connections from customers to our secure data centers and from our customers to the shared registration system. these connections depend upon the efficient operation of internet service providers and internet backbone service providers, all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past. a failure in the operation of our top-level domain name zone servers, the domain name root zone servers, or other events could result in the deletion of one or more domain names from the internet for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. in the event that a registrar has not implemented back up services recommended by us in conformance with industry best practices, a failure in the operation of our shared registration system could result in the inability of one or more other registrars to register and maintain domain names for a period of time. a failure in the operation or update of the master database that we maintain could also result in the deletion of one or more top-level domains from the internet and the discontinuation of second-level domain names in those top-level domains for a period of time or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. any of these problems or outages could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity that could adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. in addition, a failure in our nia services could have a negative impact on our reputation and our business could suffer. we experienced security breaches in the corporate network in 2010 which were not sufficiently reported to management. in 2010, the company faced several successful attacks against its corporate network in which access was gained to information on a small portion of our computers and servers. we have investigated and do not believe these attacks breached the servers that support our dns network as all dns zone files were and are protected by a series of integrity checks including real-time monitoring and validation. information stored on some of the compromised corporate systems was exfiltrated. the company information security group was aware of the attacks shortly after the time of their occurrence and the group implemented remedial measures designed to mitigate the attacks and to detect and thwart similar additional attacks. however, given the nature of such attacks, we cannot assure that our remedial actions will be sufficient to thwart future attacks or prevent the future loss of information. in addition, although the company is unaware of any situation in which possibly exfiltrated information has been used, we are unable to assure that such information was not or could not be used in the future. the occurrences of the attacks were not sufficiently reported to the company management at the time they occurred for the purpose of assessing any disclosure requirements. management was informed of the incident in september 2011 and, following the review, the company management concluded that our disclosure controls 18 table of contents and procedures are effective. however, the company has implemented reporting line and escalation organization changes, procedures and processes to strengthen the company disclosure controls and procedures in this area. see item 9a controls and procedures in part ii of this report. if we experience security breaches, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. we retain certain customer and employee information in our secure data centers and various registration systems. it is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. the company, as an operator of critical infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. these include the most sophisticated form of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat ( apt ) attacks and zero-hour threats, which means that the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and defend against. the shared registration system, the domain name root zone servers and top-level domain name zone servers that we operate are critical hardware and software to our registry services operations. we expend significant time and money on the security of our facilities and infrastructure. despite our security measures, our infrastructure may be vulnerable to physical break-ins, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. it is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our secure data centers and domain name registration systems may jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. in such an event, we could face significant liability, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for certain of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. for example, in 2010 our corporate network was breached. see risk factors we experienced security breaches in the corporate network in 2010 which were not sufficiently reported to management. we rely on our intellectual property, and any failure by us to protect, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and intellectual property. despite our precautions, it may be possible for a third party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our trade secrets or other forms of our intellectual property without authorization. furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent u.s. law protects these rights in the u.s. in addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. if we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to certain of our technology in the u.s. patent and trademark office and patent offices outside the u.s. patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. in the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. this type of litigation, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. we also license third-party technology that is used in our products and services to perform key functions. these third-party technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. our business would suffer if we lost the rights to use certain of these technologies. additionally, another party could claim that the licensed software infringes a patent or other proprietary right. litigation between the licensor and a third-party or between us and a third-party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not 19 table of contents indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. the loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could harm our business. we rely on the strength of our verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products. dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. we are at risk that we will be unable to register, build equity in, or enforce the new logo for the company. we could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. it is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of third parties. the international launch of the new logo for the company could present additional potential risks for third party claims of infringement. any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. if a successful claim of infringement was made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. if we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. in addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses are uncertain and still evolving. because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. there are a significant number of u.s. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. we could become involved in claims, lawsuits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. in addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we may become involved in other claims, lawsuits and investigations. such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. adverse outcomes in lawsuits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. given the inherent uncertainties in litigation, even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach. in addition, such investigations, claims and lawsuits could involve significant expense and diversion of management attention and resources from other matters. we must establish and maintain strategic, channel and other relationships. one of our significant business strategies has been to enter into strategic or other similar collaborative relationships in order to reach a larger customer base than we could reach through our direct sales and marketing efforts, including in international markets. we may need to enter into additional relationships to execute our business plan. we may not be able to enter into additional, or maintain our existing, strategic relationships on commercially reasonable terms. if we fail to enter into additional relationships, we would have to devote substantially more resources to the distribution, sale and marketing of our services than we would otherwise. 20 table of contents our success in obtaining results from these relationships will depend both on the ultimate success of the other parties to these relationships and on the ability of these parties to market our services successfully. furthermore, any changes by our distributors to their existing marketing strategies could have a material adverse effect on our business. similarly, if one or more of our distributors were to encounter financial difficulties, or if there were a significant reduction in marketing expenditures by our distributors (including registrars), as a result of industry consolidation or otherwise, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a decrease in domain name registrations and renewals. failure of one or more of our strategic, channel or other relationships to result in the development and maintenance of a market for our services could harm our business. if we are unable to maintain our existing relationships or to enter into additional relationships, this could harm our business. the success of our nia services depends in part on the acceptance of our services. we are investing in our nia services, and the future growth of these services depends, in part, on the commercial success, acceptance, and reliability of our nia services. these services will suffer if our target customers do not adopt or use these services. we are not certain that our target customers will choose our nia services or continue to use these services even after adoption. we rely on third parties to provide products which are incorporated in our nia services. the nia services incorporate and rely on third party hardware and software products, many of which have unique capabilities. if verisign was unable to procure these third party products, the nia services may malfunction, not perform as well as they should perform, not perform as well as they have been performing or not perform as planned, and our business could suffer. many of our target markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. our registry services and nia services businesses are developing services in emerging markets, including services that involve naming and directory services other than registry and related infrastructure services. these emerging markets are rapidly evolving, may never gain wide acceptance and may not grow. even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely accepted. accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. the factors that may affect market acceptance of our services in these markets include the following: market acceptance of products and services based upon technologies other than those we use; public perception of the security of our technologies and of ip and other networks; the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices; the ability of the internet infrastructure to accommodate increased levels of usage; and government regulations affecting internet access and availability, e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet. if the market for e-commerce and communications over ip and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. we depend on key employees to manage our business effectively and have experienced changes in our senior management team, and we may face difficulty in attracting and retaining full-time, qualified leaders. we depend on the performance of our senior management team and other key employees. our success also depends on our ability to attract, integrate, train, retain and motivate these individuals and additional highly skilled technical and sales and marketing employees, both in the u.s. and abroad. 21 table of contents during the third quarter of 2011, our board appointed d. james bidzos, our executive chairman, as president and chief executive officer, and john calys, our vice president, controller, as interim chief financial officer, following the resignations of our president and chief executive officer and our chief financial officer, respectively. the search for a regular full-time replacement to fill the chief financial officer position may be a distraction to our senior management, business partners and customers, and, although we believe we have taken appropriate measures to address the impact of these departures, there is a risk that such changes may impair our ability to meet our business objectives. during the period of transition following the appointment of a permanent chief financial officer, there may be operational inefficiencies as the chief financial officer becomes familiar with our business and operations. we cannot provide you with any assurance that the search for any replacements will be successful, and if we cannot recruit (or experience delays in recruiting) a qualified regular full-time replacement for such position, our business may suffer. we have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for a third party to acquire us without the consent of our board of directors ( board ). these provisions include: our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent; special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chief executive officer, the president or our board, and cannot be called by our stockholders; our board must be given advance notice regarding stockholder-sponsored proposals for consideration at annual meetings and for stockholder nominations for the election of directors; vacancies on our board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by majority vote of the members of the corporate governance and nominating committee, or a majority of directors then in office if no such committee exists, or a sole remaining director; and our board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval. we have also adopted a stockholder rights plan that may discourage, delay or prevent a change of control or the acquisition of a substantial block of our common stock and may make any future unsolicited acquisition attempt more difficult. under the rights plan: the rights will generally become exercisable if a person or group acquires 20% or more of our outstanding common stock (unless such transaction is approved by our board) and thus becomes an acquiring person. each right, when exercisable, will entitle the holder, other than the acquiring person, to acquire shares of our common stock at a 50% discount to the then-prevailing market price. as a result, the rights plan will cause substantial dilution to a person or group that becomes an acquiring person on terms that our board does not believe are in our best interests and those of our stockholders and may discourage, delay or prevent a merger or acquisition that stockholders may consider favorable, including transactions in which stockholders might otherwise receive a premium for their shares. in addition, section 203 of the general corporation law of delaware prohibits a publicly held delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. section 203 therefore may 22 table of contents impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our board. changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations may adversely affect our effective tax rates. we are subject to income taxes in both the u.s. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. in the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are subject to audit by various tax authorities. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our income tax provision and net income in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. we are a u.s.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple u.s. and foreign tax jurisdictions. a significant portion of our foreign earnings for the current fiscal year were earned by our swiss subsidiaries. our effective tax rate could fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis and could be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in countries where we have higher statutory rates. various legislative proposals that would reform u.s. corporate tax laws have been proposed by the obama administration as well as members of congress. we are unable to predict whether these or other proposals will be implemented. we have not yet determined whether, or the extent to which, these proposals will ultimately impact us. our inability to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings could materially adversely affect our results of operations. deferred income taxes have not been provided on most of the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries because these earnings have been indefinitely reinvested and we do not plan to initiate any action that would precipitate the payment of income taxes thereon. we consider the following matters, among others, in evaluating our plans for indefinite reinvestment: the forecasts, budgets and financial requirements of the parent and subsidiaries for both the long and short term; the tax consequences of a decision to reinvest; and any u.s. and foreign government programs designed to influence remittances. if factors change and as a result we are unable to indefinitely reinvest the foreign earnings, the income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from the current period and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. we are subject to the risks of owning real property. we closed on the purchase of the land and building in reston, virginia, constituting our headquarters facility, on november 15, 2011. ownership of this property may subject us to risks, including: adverse changes in the value of this property, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; and possible disputes with neighboring owners, service providers or others. 23 table of contents risks relating to the competitive environment in which we operate the business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer price reductions, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. general: new technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. we cannot assure you that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. in addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. the existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. as a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. competition in registry services: we face competition in the domain name registry space from other gtld and cctld registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to establish a web presence, including registries offering services related to the .info, .org, .mobi, .biz, .pro, .aero, .museum, .coop and ..xxx gtlds and registries offering services related to cctlds. icann currently has registry agreements with 16 registries for the operation of 18 gtlds. in addition, there are over 250 latin script cctld registries and 38 idn cctld registries. furthermore, under our agreements with icann, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of .com , .net and .name on pricing, bundling, methods of distribution and use of registrars that do not apply to cctlds and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage. if other registries launch marketing campaigns for new or existing tlds, including forms of marketing campaigns that we are prohibited from running under the terms of our agreements with icann, which result in registrars giving other tlds greater prominence on their websites, advertising or marketing materials, we could be at a competitive disadvantage and our business could suffer. we also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other dns services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. among the competitors are neustar inc., afilias limited, ari registry services and nominet uk, inc. in addition, to the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as google inc., microsoft corporation, and yahoo! inc., operators of social networks such as facebook, and operators of microblogging tools such as twitter. furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and phone applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications. additional competition to our business may arise from the introduction of new tlds by icann. these include idn tlds and the upcoming introduction of new gtlds by icann. on october 30, 2009, icann approved a fast track process for the awarding of new idn cctlds and such new idn cctlds have started to be introduced into the root. an application period for other new domain extensions (including ones for which we could apply) opened in january 2012 with new registration opportunities available by the beginning of 2013. we do not yet know the impact, if any, that these new domain extensions may have on our business. applicants for such new tlds may have greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do. furthermore, icann will allow the operators of new gtlds to also own, be owned 100% by or otherwise affiliated with a registrar, whereas we are currently prohibited by our agreements with icann and the doc from owning more than 15% of a registrar. as a result, operators of new gtlds may be able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration. icann has also approved a process pursuant to which an operator of an existing gtld could apply to become a registrar with respect to a new gtld; however, it is uncertain whether icann and/or the doc would approve the necessary changes to verisign existing agreements to allow us to vertically integrate with respect to new gtlds, in which case, we may be at a competitive disadvantage. while we intend to apply for one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no certainty that we will ultimately be successful, and even if we are successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions, there is no guarantee that such extensions will be any more successful than the domain name extensions obtained by our 24 table of contents competitors. similarly, while we may provide back-end registry services to other applicants for new gtlds, we face competition from other back-end registry service providers and there is no guarantee that such applicants we do enter into agreements with will be successful in obtaining one or more of these new domain extensions or that such domain extensions will be successful. competition in network intelligence and availability services: several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards and customer requirements. many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. if such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully. we face competition in the network intelligence and availability services industry from companies or services such as isight partners, security services x-force threat analysis service, secunia aps, dell secureworks, mcafee, inc., prolexic technologies, inc., at&amp;t inc., verizon communications, inc., dyn, inc. dynect platform, neustar ultra services, opendns, bluecat networks, inc., infoblox inc., nominum, inc. and afilias limited. our inability to react to changes in our industry and successfully introduce new products and services could harm our business. the internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. in order to remain competitive and retain our market share, we must continually improve our access technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and customer preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. we cannot assure you that we will be able to adapt to these challenges or anticipate or respond successfully or in a cost effective way to adequately meet them. our failure to do so would adversely affect our ability to compete and retain customers or market share. risks related to the sale of our authentication services business and the completion of our divestitures we face risks related to the terms of the sale of the authentication services business. under the agreement reached with symantec for the sale of our authentication services business (the symantec agreement ), we agreed to several terms that may pose risks to us, including the potential for confusion by the public with respect to symantec right to use certain of our trademarks, brands and domain names, as well as the risk that current or potential investors in or customers of the company may incorrectly attribute to the company problems with symantec products or services that currently use the verisign brand pursuant to a license granted by the company to symantec. any such confusion may have a negative impact on our reputation, our brand and the market for our products and services. in addition, we may determine that certain assets transferred to symantec could have been useful in our naming services businesses or in other future endeavors, requiring us to forego future opportunities or design or purchase alternatives which could be costly and less effective than the transferred assets. further, we may not be able to achieve the full strategic and financial benefits we expect from the sale of our authentication services business. under the terms of the symantec agreement, we have licensed rights to certain of our domain name registrations to symantec. we are at risk that our customers will go to a url for a licensed domain name and be unable to locate our registry or nia services. in addition, we will continue to maintain the registration rights for 25 table of contents the domain names licensed to symantec for which symantec has sole control over the displayed content, and we may be subject to claims of infringement if symantec posts content that is alleged to infringe the rights of a third party. we continue to be responsible for certain liabilities and transition services following the divestiture of certain businesses. under the agreements reached with the buyers of certain divested businesses, including the authentication services business, we remain liable for certain liabilities related to the divested businesses. in addition, we have entered into, and may in the future amend or extend, a transition services agreement with symantec in connection with the divestiture of the authentication services business. these transition services may be required for a longer period of time than anticipated by management, and currently, we are obligated to provide the transition services at a fixed price, but our actual costs to provide such services may exceed the fees symantec is contractually obligated to pay. there is a possibility that we will incur unanticipated costs and expenses associated with management of liabilities relating to the businesses we have divested, including requests for indemnification by the buyers of the divested businesses. these liabilities could potentially relate to (i) breaches of contractual representations and warranties we gave to the buyers of the divested businesses, or (ii) certain liabilities relating to the divested businesses that we retained under the agreements reached with the buyers of the divested businesses. such liabilities could include certain litigation matters, including actions brought by third parties. where responsibility for such liabilities is to be contractually allocated to the buyer or shared with the buyer or another party, it is possible that the buyer or the other party may be in default for payments for which they are responsible, obligating us to pay amounts in excess of our agreed-upon share of those obligations. following the divestiture of certain businesses, our ability to compete in certain market sectors is restricted. under the agreements reached with buyers for certain businesses we divested, including the authentication services business, we are restricted from competing, either directly or indirectly, with those businesses or from entering certain market sectors for a defined period of time pursuant to negotiated non-compete arrangements. risks related to our securities we have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. as of december 31, 2011, we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 159.4 million shares were outstanding. in addition, of our authorized common shares, 19.9 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding employee stock option and employee stock purchase plans ( equity plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of the 3.25% junior subordinated convertible debentures due 2037 (the convertible debentures ). as a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our equity plans and/or the conversion of convertible debentures into our common stock. issuance of all or a large portion of such shares would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of long-term debt outstanding. in addition to the convertible debentures, we have a facility with a borrowing capacity of $200.0 million. as of december 31, 2011, we had borrowed $100.0 million under the facility. the availability of borrowing capacity under the facility allows us immediate access to working capital if we identify opportunities 26 table of contents for the use of this cash. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of corporate opportunities. the facility is described in note 7, debt and interest expense, of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this form 10-k. we may not have the ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash upon the occurrence of a fundamental change, or to pay cash upon the conversion of convertible debentures, as required by the indenture governing the convertible debentures. as a result of the sale of the convertible debentures, we have a substantial amount of long-term debt outstanding. holders of our outstanding convertible debentures will have the right to require us to repurchase the convertible debentures upon the occurrence of a fundamental change as defined in the indenture dated as of august 20, 2007 (the indenture ) between the company and u.s. bank national association, as trustee. although we currently intend to settle the principal amount of the convertible debentures in cash as required under the indenture, we may not have sufficient funds to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or have the ability to arrange necessary financing on acceptable terms or at all. in addition, upon conversion of the convertible debentures, we will be required to make cash payments to the holders of the convertible debentures equal to the lesser of the principal amount of the convertible debentures being converted and the conversion value (as defined in the indenture) of those debentures. such payments could be significant, and we may not have sufficient funds to make them at such time. a fundamental change may also constitute an event of default or prepayment under, or result in the acceleration of the maturity of, our then-existing indebtedness. our ability to repurchase the convertible debentures in cash or make any other required payments may be limited by law or the terms of other agreements relating to our indebtedness outstanding at the time. our failure to repurchase the convertible debentures or pay cash in respect of conversions when required would result in an event of default with respect to the convertible debentures. while we currently have the intent and ability to settle the principal in cash, if we conclude that we no longer have the ability, in the future, we will be required to change our accounting policy for earnings per share from the treasury stock method to the if-converted method. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. we have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes. interest rate sensitivity the interest rates on our revolving credit facility are affected by changes in market interest rates. as of december 31, 2011, we had $100.0 million outstanding under our credit facility. the impact of a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would not have a significant impact on our interest expense in 2012. our marketable securities consist of fixed income securities which are subject to interest rate risk. as of december 31, 2011 we had $32.9 million of fixed income securities, which consisted primarily of debt securities issued by the u.s. treasury and other u.s. government corporations and agencies. the impact of a hypothetical 1% increase in interest rates would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. foreign exchange risk management we conduct business throughout the world and transact in multiple foreign currencies. our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with both monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in non-functional currencies. the primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. we may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. we do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. the program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. these foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. we attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings. as of december 31, 2011, we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling $39.7 million to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. changes in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency derivatives outstanding would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated monetary and non-monetary assets and liabilities resulting in an insignificant net impact to income. a hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements. market risk management the fair market value of our convertible debentures is subject to interest rate risk and market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures. generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as 48 table of contents interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. the fair market value of the convertible debentures will also increase as the market price of our stock increases and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. the interest and market value changes affect the fair market value of the convertible debentures but do not impact our financial position, cash flows or results of operations. as of december 31, 2011, the fair value of the convertible debentures was approximately $1.5 billion, based on quoted market prices. the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative on convertible debentures is also subject to interest rate risk and market risk. generally, the fair market value of the contingent interest derivative will change due to changes in interest rates as well as due to changes in the fair market value of the convertible debentures. 49 table of contents