risk factors 9 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. for the last few years, we have experienced a number of transitions as we have attempted to revitalize our business model, improve execution, and innovate new products and services. these transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel, changes in our strategic direction and, more recently, our decision to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies. transitions of the order we have experienced or are experiencing can be disruptive and result in loss of institutional focus and employee morale, making execution of business strategies more difficult. we are also in the process of seeking to address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the pc market, the market shift towards tablets within mobility and architectural shifts in the provision of security and storage solutions, all of which has made it more difficult for us to compete effectively and requires us to improve our product and service offerings. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts given our multiple business units, the proposed separation and the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we are pursuing a plan to separate our information management business into a new, independent publicly-traded company. the proposed separation may not be completed on the currently contemplated timeline or at all and, if completed, may not achieve the intended benefits. in october 2014, we announced a plan to separate into two independent publicly-traded companies through a tax-free distribution to symantec stockholders of 100% of the capital stock of our information management business (the spin-off ). we could be delayed or prevented from completing the proposed separation, or be forced to complete it on terms or conditions that are less favorable and/or different than expected, for a variety of reasons, including unanticipated developments, such as delays in obtaining regulatory approvals or clearances, uncertainty of the financial markets. furthermore, any significant delays or complications in our implementation of a new enterprise resource management system and it infrastructure for our stand-alone information management business would adversely affect our ability to effect the separation in a timely manner and could result in significant business disruption, increased costs, or both. in addition, if other opportunities were to arise for the disposition of the information business that we believe are superior to the spin-off, we may elect not to complete the spin-off. even if the transaction is completed, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the proposed separation. moreover, following the proposed separation, the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies may not be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. in addition, we expect to spend substantial time, money and effort on completing the proposed separation without any assurance that it will be completed. our investments in terms of financial and management resources may be significantly higher than expected, which could limit our ability to pursue other business opportunities and distract us from operating our businesses as currently conducted. our focus on completing the separation, and resource constraints resulting from that focus, could also adversely affect the execution of our business strategy. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we face difficulties in attracting, 9 table of contents retaining and motivating employees as a result. these difficulties may increase during the pendency of the proposed separation and following its completion. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company and the incidence of this increased in recent periods due to the transitions we have experienced over the last few years. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. these risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the transitions we have experienced over the last few years, including the proposed separation. fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. additionally, we are in the process of addressing the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the emergence of advanced persistent threats in the security space, the decline in the pc market, and the market shift towards tablets and handheld devices, all of which have made it more difficult for us to compete effectively. customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. our failure to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and to create or increase demand for our solutions, and may adversely impact our operating results. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected; adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers; extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices; entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience; managing new product and service strategies for the markets in which we operate; addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship our products; developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and 10 table of contents obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we may also experience increased difficulties in managing these risks and challenges during the pendency of the separation and following its completion. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors' products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors' software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such as intel corporation's acquisition of mcafee, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. if the separation, together with certain related transactions, is determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or the independent information management business could incur significant income tax liabilities. receipt of opinions from outside tax counsel and from a national accounting firm (together, the tax opinions ) substantially to the effect that, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the proposed separation and certain related internal transactions (collectively the "separation") will qualify under sections 355 and 368 of the internal revenue code (the code), will be a condition to the completion of the separation. in addition, we will seek a private letter ruling from the irs to the effect that, among other things, certain aspects of the spin-off and certain other related transactions will not disqualify the spin-off or the related transactions from receiving the generally tax-free treatment that we are anticipating for u.s. federal income tax purposes under the same code sections. the tax opinions and private letter ruling will rely on certain facts, assumptions, 11 table of contents representations and undertakings, including those regarding the past and future conduct of certain of our businesses and other matters. if any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, we and our stockholders may not be able to rely on the tax opinions and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. notwithstanding the tax opinions and private letter ruling, the irs could determine on audit that the separation and certain other related transactions are taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the tax opinions, or for other reasons. the tax opinions will not be binding on the irs or the courts. accordingly, the irs or the courts may challenge the conclusions stated in the tax opinions and such challenge could prevail. if the separation is determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we and those of our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. for example, if the spin-off fails to qualify for tax-free treatment, the transactions would, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, be treated as if the stock of the information management business was sold in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who are subject to u.s. federal income tax would be treated as receiving a taxable distribution in an amount equal to the fair market value of the stock received in the spin-off. additionally, the parties and their respective affiliates could incur significant u.s. and foreign income tax liabilities if it is ultimately determined that certain related internal transactions undertaken in connection with the separation are taxable. the parties might not be able to engage in desirable strategic transactions and equity issuances following the separation because of restrictions relating to u.s. federal income tax requirements for tax-free distributions. the parties' ability to engage in significant equity transactions could be limited or restricted after the separation in order to preserve, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, the tax-free nature of the separation and certain related internal transactions. even if the separation otherwise qualifies for tax-free treatment under section 355 of the code, it may result in corporate-level taxable gain to symantec if 50% or more, by vote or value, of our shares or shares of the independent information management business are acquired or issued as part of a plan or series of related transactions that includes the separation. any acquisitions or issuances of the shares of either party within two years after the separation are generally presumed to be part of such a plan, although the parties may be able to rebut that presumption. to preserve the tax-free treatment to us of the separation, the parties will agree not to take or fail to take any action that prevents the separation and related transactions from being tax-free, among other restrictions. these restrictions may limit our ability to pursue strategic transactions. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products and services; entry of new competition into our markets; competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products; our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products; how well we execute our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses); our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter; enterprise customers' tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter; cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers; changes in the mix or type of products sold; 12 table of contents movements in interest rates; the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems; changes in accounting rules; weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services; political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively; budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives; disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide; acts of war or terrorism; intentional disruptions by third parties; and health or similar issues, such as a pandemic. any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. our business models present execution and competitive risks. in recent years, our saas offerings have become increasingly critical in our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying saas offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own saas strategies. we cannot assure you that our investments in and development of saas offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support saas offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our saas offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact pricing in both our on-premise enterprise software business and our cloud business, as well as overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our product or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings. a large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings, yet existing customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of their satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly 13 table of contents than expected, if at all. accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. if these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. our increasing focus on the delivery of products in an appliance form factor creates new business and financial risks. since fiscal 2012, shipments of products to customers in an appliance form factor have represented an increasingly larger part of our revenues, particularly in our information management segment, and we expect this trend to continue. the delivery of solutions in the form of appliances creates business and financial risks, including the following: increased cost of components and contract manufacturing, as we do not own our manufacturing facilities; supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers; a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs and/or causes a delay in order fulfillment; excess inventory levels, which could lead to write-downs or obsolescence charges; additional reserves for product returns; challenges in managing our channel business; tax and trade compliance complications; and local field support of customers' appliances. defects, disruptions or risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. our saas offerings also involve the storage and transmission of large amounts of our customers' proprietary information, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against such breaches, our security measures could be breached at any time and could result in unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our customers' data. any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our saas offerings could reduce sales, and constrain consumer and business customer adoption of our saas offering. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further security measures could be significant. in addition, prolonged delays or unforeseen difficulties in connection with adding storage capacity or upgrading our network architecture when required may cause our service quality to suffer. problems with the reliability or security of our systems could harm our reputation. we process, store and use personal information and other data, which subjects us to governmental regulation and other legal obligations related to privacy, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such obligations could harm our business. we receive, store, and process personal information and other customer data. there are numerous federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and the storing, sharing, use, processing, disclosure and protection of personal information and other customer data, the scope of which are changing and, subject to differing interpretations. we generally seek to comply with industry standards and are subject to the terms of our privacy policies and privacy-related obligations to third parties. we strive to comply with all applicable laws, policies, legal obligations and industry codes of conduct relating to privacy and data 14 table of contents protection to the extent possible. however, it is possible that these obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent from one jurisdiction to another and may conflict with other rules or our practices. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with our privacy policies, our privacy-related obligations to customers or other third parties, our privacy-related legal obligations, or any compromise of security that results in the unauthorized release or transfer of personally identifiable information or other customer data, may result in governmental enforcement actions, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a mobile device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. additionally, if third parties that we work with, such as vendors or developers, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also put our customers' information at risk and could in turn have an adverse effect on our business. any significant change to applicable laws, regulations or industry practices regarding the use or disclosure of our customers' data, or regarding the manner in which the express or implied consent of customers for the use and disclosure of such data is obtained, could require us to modify our solutions and features, possibly in a material manner, and may limit our ability to develop new services and features that make use of the data that our customers voluntarily share with us. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts; difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization; and substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our products and services, including regular updates to cover new and revised products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates. indirect sales channels . a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users; our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and the consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us. oem sales channels . a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments; our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales; the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues; 15 table of contents the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market; and our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. over the long term we intend to invest in research and development activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest significantly in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. we recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry and market conditions, or in connection with our pending separation, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances, our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. furthermore, our business administration, human resources and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner. any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an 16 table of contents overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneous, fraud or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our products and services could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. in addition, our business would be harmed if any of events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies; diversion of management time and attention; loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business; the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements; dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; and substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from our acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s.; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers' ability to obtain financing for software products or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; 17 table of contents difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries; costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. is denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. for example, in recent periods the u.s. dollar has strengthened significantly against the euro and other major currencies, which has adversely impacted our reported international revenue. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the u.s. continue to increase. the level of corporate income tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers' computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer's systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. 18 table of contents from time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions and governmental claims, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. an adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of our 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75% notes due 2015 ) and 4.20% senior notes ( 4.20% notes ) in september 2010, and 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75 notes due 2017 ) and 3.95% senior notes ( 3.95% notes ) in june 2012, we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $2.1 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2015, 2017, 2020, and 2022. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. the maintenance of our debt levels could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of 19 table of contents refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our products and offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. furthermore, our employees or contractors may, either intentionally or unintentionally, subject us to information security risks and incidents. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. if we are unable to adequately address increased customer demands on our technical support services, our relationships with our customers and our financial results may be adversely affected. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. we sell products to the u.s. government under contracts that include special compliance obligations and subject us to audits and reviews by various agencies of the u.s. government. any failure to meet these obligations, or an adverse outcome in an audit or investigation, could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we have sold products through our gsa schedule contract. our gsa schedule contract contains provisions that require us to provide customers purchasing through that contract with negotiated favorable pricing as compared to certain non-federal customers, and requires us to monitor aspects of our commercial sales practices to ensure compliance with that pricing obligation. in the ordinary course of business, sales under our gsa schedule contract may be subject to audit or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance with the provisions of the contract identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 20 table of contents on june 4, 2012, we were advised by the commercial litigation branch of the department of justice's civil division and the civil division of the u.s. attorney's office for the district of columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our gsa schedule contract, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices. the department of justice has requested that we preserve, among other things, all records relating to gsa schedule contracting activity. as reported on the gsa's publicly-available database, our total sales under the gsa schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning january 2007 and ending september 2012. in 2012, a sealed civil lawsuit was filed against symantec related to compliance with the gsa schedule contract and contracts with california, florida, and new york. in july 2014, following expiration of the court-imposed seal, the u.s. government intervened in the lawsuit and in september 2014, the states of california and florida intervened in the lawsuit, and the state of new york notified the court that it would not intervene. in october 2014, the department of justice filed an amended complaint, which did not state a specific damages amount, and california and florida combined their claims with those of the department of justice and the relator on behalf of new york in an omnibus complaint. the state claims also do not state specific damages amounts. it is possible that the litigation could lead to claims or findings of violations of the false claims act and could be material to our results of operations and cash flows for any period. violations of the false claims act could result in the imposition of damages, including up to treble damages, plus civil penalties in some cases. whether or not we are successful in defending ourselves in the litigation, the cost to resolve this matter would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. any negative publicity related to our government customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of the outcome of this matter, may also damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets; impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets; stock-based compensation expense; restructuring charges; and loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including possible corporate tax reform in the u.s., and proposed actions by international bodies such as the oecd, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and taxes arising in connection with the separation of certain foreign operations of the information management business. the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 21 table of contents our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors' operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors; announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers; gain or loss of a significant customer, partner, reseller or distributor; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations; and economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate. the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. unforeseen catastrophic or other global events could harm our operating results and financial condition. we are a global company and conduct our business inside and outside the u.s. our business operations and financial results could be adversely impacted by unforeseen catastrophic or other global events, including an epidemic or a pandemic, acts of war or terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, natural disasters, or political unrest or turmoil. unforeseen political turmoil, military escalations, and armed conflict pose a risk of economic disruption in the countries in which they occur and in other countries, which may increase our operating costs. such incidences of uncertainty could disrupt customers' spending on our products and services which may adversely affect our revenue. in addition, our corporate headquarters are located in the silicon valley area of northern california, a region known for seismic activity. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, target markets, operating results, and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 41 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of april 3, 2015 and march 28, 2014, we had $2.1 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $2.1 billion and a fair value of $2.2 billion , which fair value is based on level 2 inputs. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of april 3, 2015 and march 28, 2014 by using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 50 bps movement in the levels of market interest rates, with all other variables held constant. on april 3, 2015 and march 28, 2014, a hypothetical 50 bps increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate senior notes by a decrease of approximately $39 million and $48 million, respectively and an increase of approximately $40 million and $49 million, respectively. however, this hypothetical change in market interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 43 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign currency transaction gains and losses is the result of certain net receivables due from our foreign subsidiaries and customers being denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary, primarily the euro and singapore dollar. our foreign subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency. we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to six months in duration, to offset the foreign exchange risk on certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. we 41 table of contents considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates for all currencies could be experienced. the estimated impacts of a ten percent appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency are as follows: april 3, 2015 march 28, 2014 change in fair value due to 10% change in fair value due to 10% foreign exchange forward contract notional amount appreciation depreciation notional amount appreciation depreciation (dollars in millions) purchased $ 102 $ 10 $ (10 ) $ 154 $ 15 $ (15 ) sold (195 ) (19 ) 19 (240 ) (24 ) 24 total net outstanding contracts $ (93 ) $ (9 ) $ 9 $ (86 ) $ (9 ) $ 9 we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates.risk factors 8 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. for the last few years, we have experienced a number of transitions as we have attempted to revitalize our business model, improve execution and innovate new products and services. these transitions have involved significant turnover in management and other key personnel, changes in our strategic direction and, more recently, the divestiture of veritas. transitions of the magnitude we have experienced and are experiencing can be disruptive, result in loss of institutional focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult. we are also focused on addressing dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the continued decline in the pc market, the market shifts towards mobility, the transition towards cloud-based solutions and architectural shifts in the provision of security, all of which has made it more difficult for us to compete effectively and requires us to improve our product and service offerings. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts and the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we may not achieve the intended benefits of the divestiture of veritas. on january 29, 2016, we completed the divestiture of veritas, however, we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the transaction. the resource constraints as a result of our prior focus on completing the transaction which included the loss of employees could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results. additionally, in connection with the divestiture, our board of directors committed to returning the proceeds of the sale of veritas to stockholders in the form of a capital return program, which included the payment of a special dividend in march 2016, entry into multiple share accelerated transactions, and continued repurchases under current and future share repurchase programs. the use of proceeds in this manner could impair the company's future financial growth. 8 table of contents fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, awareness of security threats to it systems and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings. a large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings, yet existing customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, if at all. accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. if these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. in may 2016 we announced a fiscal 2017 restructuring plan to be achieved by the end of fiscal 2018. this initiative could result in disruptions to our operations. any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations will suffer. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. additionally, we must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the emergence of advanced persistent threats in the security space, the continued decline in the pc market and the market shift towards mobility and the increasing transition towards cloud-based solutions, all of which have made it more difficult for us to compete effectively. customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. our failure to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and to create or increase demand for our solutions and may adversely impact our operating results. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected; adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers; extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices; entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience; managing new product and service strategies for the markets in which we operate; addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship our products; developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code 9 table of contents licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors' products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors' software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies that are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services, such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products and services; entry of new competition into our markets; 10 table of contents competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products; our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products; how well we execute our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomeware and other malicious threats); our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter; enterprise customers' tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter; cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers; changes in the mix or type of products sold; movements in interest rates; the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems; changes in accounting rules; weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services; political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively; budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives; disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide; acts of war or terrorism; intentional disruptions by third parties; and health or similar issues, such as a pandemic. any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. our business models present execution and competitive risks. in recent years, our saas offerings have become increasingly critical in our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying saas offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own saas strategies. we cannot assure you that our investments in and development of saas offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support saas offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our saas offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact pricing in both our on-premise enterprise software business and our cloud business, as well as overall demand for our on-premise 11 table of contents software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our product or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. defects, disruptions or risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. we collect, use, disclose, store or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business. the personal information we collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process ), including from employees and customers, is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. additionally, if third parties that we work with, such as vendors or developers, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also place personal information at risk and have an adverse effect on our business. changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information, and therefore limit the effectiveness of our products, services or features, or our ability to develop new products, services or features. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts; difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization; and substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our products and services, including regular updates to cover new and revised products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates. indirect sales channels . a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users; 12 table of contents our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and the consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us. oem sales channels . a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments; our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales; the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues; the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market; and our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. over the long term we intend to invest in research and development activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest significantly in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. we recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry and market conditions and in connection with the recent divestiture of veritas, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of or otherwise exiting businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. 13 table of contents further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. furthermore, our business administration, human resources and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner. any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously, fraud or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our products and services could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. in addition, our business would be harmed if any of events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies; diversion of management time and attention; loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business; the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements; dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; and substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from our acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. 14 table of contents our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s.; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers' ability to obtain financing for software products or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries; costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. is denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. for example, in recent periods the u.s. dollar has strengthened significantly against the euro and other major currencies, which has adversely impacted our reported international revenue. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the u.s. continue to increase. the level of corporate income tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers' computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of 15 table of contents our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer's systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink- wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. from time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions and governmental claims, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. adverse global economic events may impact our customers' ability to do business with us, thereby harming our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our customers, thereby impacting our business, operating results or financial condition. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers 16 table of contents may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. any of these scenarios could adversely affect our business. our exposure to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable significantly increases in adverse economic conditions. an adverse macroeconomic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. our outstanding accounts receivables are generally not secured. in addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our product. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. further, while no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenues in each of fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, one distributor accounted for 10% of our gross accounts receivable as of april 1, 2016. the loss of this or other large customers could have a negative impact on our business. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables and have not suffered any material losses to date, there can be no assurance such procedures will continue to effectively limit our credit risk and avoid future losses. we cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. if additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks and access to capital markets. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of our 4.20% senior notes ( 4.20% notes due 2020 ) in september 2010, and our 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75 notes due 2017 ) and 3.95% senior notes ( 3.95% notes due 2022 ) in june 2012 and 2.50% convertible senior ( 2.50% senior convertible notes due 2021 ) in march 2016, we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $2.3 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2017, 2020, 2021 and 2022. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1.0 billion. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. the maintenance of our debt levels could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. 17 table of contents our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our products and offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. furthermore, our employees or contractors may, either intentionally or unintentionally, subject us to information security risks and incidents. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. if we are unable to adequately address increased customer demands on our technical support services, our relationships with our customers and our financial results may be adversely affected. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees as a result. in connection with the divestiture of veritas, we experienced employee attrition and related difficulties and these difficulties may continue or increase with the divestiture of veritas now complete. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manag 18 table of contents e employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company and the incidence of this increased in recent periods due to the transitions we have experienced over the last few years including the divestiture of veritas. for example, we recently announced that for the third time in four years, we are initiating a chief executive officer transition process, and appointed an interim president and chief operating officer. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. these risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the transitions we have experienced over the last few years. our contracts with the u.s. government include compliance, audit and review obligations. any failure to meet these obligations could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a gsa contract. in the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets; depreciation of property, plant and equipment; impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets; stock-based compensation expense; restructuring charges; and loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including possible corporate tax reform in the u.s., actions resulting from the organisation for economic cooperation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and taxes arising in connection with the recent divestiture of veritas. the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate 19 table of contents determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts; rumors, announcements or press articles regarding our or our competitors' operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements; changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors or securities analysts; accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill; announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors; announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers; gain or loss of a significant customer, partner, reseller or distributor; inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies; acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations; and economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate. the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. unforeseen catastrophic or other global events could harm our operating results and financial condition. we are a global company and conduct our business inside and outside the u.s. our business operations and financial results could be adversely impacted by unforeseen catastrophic or other global events, including an epidemic or a pandemic, acts of war or terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, natural disasters, or political unrest or turmoil. unforeseen political turmoil, military escalations, and armed conflict pose a risk of economic disruption in the countries in which they occur and in other countries, which may increase our operating costs. such incidences of uncertainty could disrupt customers' spending on our products and services which may adversely affect our revenue. in addition, our corporate headquarters are located in the silicon valley area of northern california, a region known for seismic activity. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, target markets, operating results, and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 38 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of april 1, 2016 , we had $2.3 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes and convertible senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $2.2 billion and a fair value of $2.3 billion , which fair value was based on level 2 inputs. as of april 3, 2015 , we had $2.1 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $2.1 billion and a fair value of $2.2 billion, which was based on level 2 inputs. we have performed sensitivity analysis as of april 1, 2016 and april 3, 2015 by using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 50 bps movement in the levels of market interest rates, with all other variables held constant. on april 1, 2016 and april 3, 2015 , a hypothetical 50 bps increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate senior notes and convertible senior notes by a decrease of approximately $41 million and $39 million, respectively and an increase of approximately $42 million and $40 million, respectively. however, this hypothetical change in market interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in approximately 38 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. our entities conduct their businesses in the primary local currency in which they operate, however, they may conduct business in other currencies. to the extend our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues or expend costs in currencies other than that entity's functional currency, they will be exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses and impacts to margins as a result. as part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to six months in duration to help mitigate foreign exchange risk, however we are not able to mitigate all of our foreign exchange risk. we have considered historical trends in exchange rates and determined that it is possible that adverse changes in exchange rates for any currency could be experienced. the estimated impacts of a ten percent appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency are as follows: april 1, 2016 april 3, 2015 change in fair value due to 10% change in fair value due to 10% foreign exchange forward contract notional amount appreciation depreciation notional amount appreciation depreciation (dollars in millions) purchased $ 693 $ 69 $ (69 ) $ 102 $ 10 $ (10 ) sold (198 ) (19 ) 19 (195 ) (19 ) 19 total net outstanding contracts $ 495 $ 50 $ (50 ) $ (93 ) $ (9 ) $ 9 we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates.risk factors 8 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. for the last few years, we have experienced a number of transitions as we have attempted to revitalize our business model, improve execution and innovate new products and services. these transitions have involved changes to management and other key personnel, shifts in our strategic direction and, more recently, changes to our corporate structure as a result of the divestiture of veritas and the acquisition of blue coat. in particular, in connection with our acquisition of blue coat, we experienced changes to our executive team during the second and third quarters of fiscal 2017, appointing three former blue coat executive officers to the positions of chief executive officer, president and chief operating officer, and executive vice president and chief financial officer. transitions of these kind can be disruptive, can result in the loss of institutional focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult. we are also focused on addressing dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the continued decline in the pc market, the market shifts towards mobility, the continued transition towards cloud-based solutions and architectural shifts in the provision of security, all of which has made it more difficult for us to compete effectively and requires us to improve our product and service offerings. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts and the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, awareness of security threats to it systems and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. additionally, since blue coat's business historically experienced a major product refresh cycle approximately once every five 8 table of contents years, as hardware appliances reach the end of their useful life, we anticipate that we will experience fluctuations in demand as we enter and exit cycles in which many of our customers refresh their install base of hardware appliance products with our latest equipment, replacing older versions of the hardware that have reached the end of their useful life and are no longer supported under maintenance contracts. our appliances generally have a five year end-of-life date from the date of purchase, which we expect will extend refresh cycles for our hardware appliances over a multi-year period and reduce the impact of a product refresh cycle in any one period. however, we cannot assure you that we will not experience uneven demand for these products in any one period, causing our business and results of operations to be adversely affected. a refresh cycle also creates an opportunity for our competitors to try to displace our existing product deployments for our customers, who may be more inclined to consider other product solutions at a time when they otherwise need to replace our existing products that have reached the end of their useful life. the extent to which customers decide to refresh by purchasing products from our current or future competitors as opposed to purchasing our new products may significantly impact our current period product revenues as well as future service revenue. our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings. a large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings, yet existing customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. our customers' renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, if at all. accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. if these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. additionally, we must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the emergence of advanced persistent threats in the security space, the continued decline in the pc market and the market shift towards mobility and the increasing transition towards cloud-based solutions, all of which have made it more difficult for us to compete effectively. for example, we have been increasingly investing in solutions that address the cloud security market, particularly our acquisition of blue coat, but we cannot be certain that the cloud security market will develop at a rate or in the manner we expect or that we will be able to compete successfully with more established competitors in the cloud security market. customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. our failure to develop solutions that satisfy customer preferences in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and to create or increase demand for our solutions and may adversely impact our operating results. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected; adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers; extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices; entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience; managing new product and service strategies for the markets in which we operate; addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship our products; developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry 9 table of contents standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors' products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors' software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services, such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. reduced trust in our ssl/tls certificates could adversely affect our website security business. our website security business depends on the widespread acceptance of the digital certificates we provide to enable communications security infrastructure. we have in the past issued, and may in the future issue, ssl/tls certificates out of compliance with the requirements of the certificate authority and browser forum baseline requirements. failures of this kind could cause popular browsers to reduce or eliminate trust in our ssl/tsl certificates or the related roots or otherwise disrupt our position as a leading certificate authority. for example, google recently issued a proposal to reduce trust in our ssl/tsl certificates based on our past issuance of non-compliant certificates. if any popular browser reduced trust in our ssl/tsl certificates or roots, it would damage our brand and cause our ssl/tsl certificates to fail to interoperate, resulting in customer attrition for our website security business, which could adversely affect our results of operations and our stock price. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: fluctuations in demand for any of our products and services; entry of new competition into our markets; competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products; our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products; how well we execute our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business operations or business model that could result in significant restructuring charges; 10 table of contents the impact of future acquisitions; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware and other malicious threats); our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter; enterprise customers' tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter; our sales cycle, which may lengthen as the complexity of products and competition in our markets increases; the timing of and rate and discounts at which customers replace older versions of the hardware that reach end of life; cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers; changes in the mix or type of products sold; movements in interest rates; the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems; changes in accounting rules; weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services; political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively; budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives; disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide; acts of war or terrorism; intentional disruptions by third parties; and health or similar issues, such as a pandemic. any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly. our business models present execution and competitive risks. in recent years, our saas offerings have become increasingly critical in our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying saas offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are making significant investments in, and devoting significant resources to develop and deploy, our own saas strategies, including our acquisition of blue coat in august 2016. we cannot assure you that our investments in and development of saas offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support saas offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our saas offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact pricing in both our on-premise enterprise software business and our cloud business, as well as overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our product or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. we or our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term go-to-market or pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer 11 table of contents demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. defects, disruptions or risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. we collect, use, disclose, store or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business. we collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process ) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business. the volume, variety and velocity of the personal information we process increased significantly as a result of our acquisition of lifelock in february 2017, as its identity and fraud protection offerings rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. the personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. additionally, if third parties that we work with, such as vendors or developers, violate applicable laws or our policies, such violations may also place personal information at risk and have an adverse effect on our business. changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information, and therefore limit the effectiveness of our products, services or features, or our ability to develop new products, services or features. our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire or divest businesses or assets. these activities can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies; diversion of management time and attention; loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including litigation related to the acquired business or assets; the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements; dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and technology systems of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. moreover, to be successful, some acquisitions, particularly acquisitions of large, complex companies, such as blue coat and lifelock, depend on large-scale product, technology and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all, and may be more susceptible to the special risks and 12 table of contents challenges described above. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our divested or acquired businesses or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions, such as anticipated operating efficiencies or other cost savings. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts; difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization; and substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our products and services, including regular updates to cover new and revised products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates. indirect sales channels . a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users; our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and the consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us. oem sales channels . a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments; our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers; our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales; the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues; the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market; and our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. over the long term we intend to invest in research and development activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest significantly in 13 table of contents research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods as the blue coat acquisition has expanded our focus areas. we recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of or otherwise exiting businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. furthermore, our business administration, human resources and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously, fraud or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. in addition, our business would be harmed if any of events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we may experience difficulties in realizing the expected benefits of the acquisition of blue coat and lifelock and may continue to incur significant acquisition-related costs and transition costs in connection with these acquisitions. we completed the acquisition of blue coat in the second quarter of fiscal 2017 and lifelock in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2017. we have invested and continue to invest substantial monetary and other resources in the integration of these companies. the success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from combining the respective companies with symantec in an efficient and effective manner. we may never realize these business opportunities and growth prospects. we may incur additional costs to maintain employee morale and to retain key employees. management cannot ensure that the elimination of duplicative costs or the realization of other efficiencies will offset the transaction and integration costs in the near term or at all. additionally, we may encounter difficulties surrounding the integration of these companies, which could delay or prevent our achievement of the expected benefits from the respective acquisition. moreover, risks specific to the acquired businesses could 14 table of contents also delay or prevent our achievement of the expected benefits from the respective acquisition. for example, since lifelock's identity and fraud protection products depend extensively upon continued access to and receipt of credible, timely and complete data from external sources, including data received from customers, vendors who are also competitors and fulfillment partners, the value we derive from the lifelock acquisition, our competitive position and our business, results of operations, and financial condition could be harmed as a result of our loss of access to data sources or reliance on sources that prove to be ineffective or inaccurate. as a result of our acquisition of lifelock, our consumer digital safety segment became subject to increased regulation, which could impede our ability to market and provide our services or adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. as a result of our acquisition of lifelock, a portion of our consumer digital safety segment became subject to increased regulation, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the fair credit reporting act, the gramm-leach-bliley act, the federal trade commission act ( ftc act ), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the ftc act. moreover, lifelock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the federal trade commission (the ftc ) and 35 states' attorneys general in 2010, and a settlement with the ftc in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of lifelock's advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the ftc act, which impose additional restrictions on the lifelock business within our consumer digital safety segment, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of lifelock's identity theft protection services. any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business. additionally, as a result of our lifelock acquisition, aspects of our consumer digital safety segment are subject to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb) and may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. in may 2016 we announced a fiscal 2017 restructuring plan to be achieved by the end of fiscal 2018. this initiative could result in disruptions to our operations. any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention. in addition, we cannot be sure that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining. if our operating costs are higher than we expect or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations will suffer. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we have expanded through our acquisition of blue coat and expect further expansion of our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s.; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers' ability to obtain financing for software products or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries; 15 table of contents difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries; costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. is denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. for example, in recent periods the u.s. dollar has strengthened significantly against the euro and other major currencies, which has adversely impacted our reported international revenue. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the u.s. continue to increase. the level of corporate income tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers' computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer's systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business. we generally provide forecasts of our requirements to our supply chain partners on a rolling basis. if our forecast exceeds our actual requirements, a supply chain partner may assess additional charges or we may have liability for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margin. if our forecast is less than our actual requirements, the applicable supply chain partner may have insufficient time or components to produce or fulfill our product requirements, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products or fulfillment of orders for our products, and result in delays in shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and deferral or loss of revenue. further, we may be required to purchase sufficient inventory to satisfy our future needs in situations where a component or product is being discontinued. if we fail to accurately predict our requirements, we may be unable to fulfill those orders or we may be required to record charges for excess inventory. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and third-party logistics providers to design and manufacture our hardware-based products and to fulfill orders for our hardware-based products. we depend primarily on original design manufacturers (each of which is a third-party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platforms for our products. we also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party contract manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture and fulfill our hardware-based products. these supply chain partners are not committed to design or manufacture our products, or to fulfill orders for our products, on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, certain of our products or key components of our products are currently manufactured by a single third-party supplier. there are alternative suppliers that could provide components, as our agreements do not provide for exclusivity or minimum purchase quantities, but the transition and qualification from one supplier to another could be lengthy, costly and difficult. also, from time to time, we may be required to add new supply chain partner relationships or new manufacturing or fulfillment sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products. it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management. our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our supply chain partner relationships; if one or more of our original design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our independent contract manufacturers 16 table of contents experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; if one or more of our third-party logistics providers experiences delays or disruptions or otherwise fails to meet our fulfillment schedules; or if we are required to add or replace original design manufacturers, independent contract manufacturers, third-party logistics providers or fulfillment sites. in addition, these supply chain partners have access to certain of our critical confidential information and could wrongly disclose or misuse such information or be subject to a breach or other compromise that introduces a vulnerability or other defect in the products manufactured by our supply chain partners. while we take precautions to ensure that hardware manufactured by our independent contractors is reviewed, any espionage acts, malware attacks, theft of confidential information or other malicious cyber incidents perpetrated either directly or indirectly through our independent contractors, may compromise our system infrastructure, expose us to litigation and associated expenses and lead to reputational harm that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, we are subject to risks resulting from the perception that certain jurisdictions, including china, do not comply with internationally recognized rights of freedom of expression and privacy and may permit labor practices that are deemed unacceptable under evolving standards of social responsibility. if manufacturing or logistics in these foreign countries is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military or government actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, or if the purchase or sale of products from such foreign countries is prohibited or disfavored, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. the dodd-frank wall street reform and consumer protection act of 2010 includes disclosure requirements regarding the use of certain minerals mined from the democratic republic of congo ( drc ) and adjoining countries and procedures pertaining to a manufacturer's efforts regarding the source of such minerals. sec rules implementing these requirements and other international standards, such as the organisation for economic co-operation and development due diligence guidance for responsible supply chains of minerals from conflict-affected and high risk areas may have the effect of reducing the pool of suppliers who can supply drc conflict free components and parts, and we may not be able to obtain drc conflict free products or supplies in sufficient quantities for our products. we may also face reputational challenges with our customers, stockholders and other stakeholders if we are unable to sufficiently verify the origins for the minerals used in our products. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink- wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. from time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions and governmental claims and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of initiating and defending such litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have 17 table of contents with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. adverse global economic events may impact our customers' ability to do business with us, thereby harming our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our customers, thereby impacting our business, operating results or financial condition. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. any of these scenarios could adversely affect our business. our exposure to credit risk and payment delinquencies on our accounts receivable significantly increases in adverse economic conditions. an adverse macroeconomic environment could subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. our outstanding accounts receivables are generally not secured. in addition, our standard terms and conditions permit payment within a specified number of days following the receipt of our product. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. further, while no customer accounted for more than 10% of our total net revenues in any of fiscal 2017, 2016 and 2015, two distributors and one distributor accounted for 10% of our gross accounts receivable as of march 31, 2017 and april 1, 2016, respectively. the loss of this or other large customers could have a negative impact on our business. while we have procedures to monitor and limit exposure to credit risk on our receivables and have not suffered any material losses to date, there can be no assurance such procedures will continue to effectively limit our credit risk and avoid future losses. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including possible corporate tax reform in the u.s., actions resulting from the organisation for economic co-operation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; and taxes arising in connection with the recent divestiture of veritas. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions or divestitures) or financing activities. any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. if additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and 18 table of contents services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may further impact us in a similar manner and may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks and access to capital markets. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. our substantial level of indebtedness could adversely affect our financial condition. as of march 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of $8.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar years 2017 and 2025, including approximately $4.6 billion in aggregate principal amount of existing senior notes and $3.7 billion of outstanding term loans under our senior credit facilities, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. in addition, as of march 31, 2017, we had $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. our ability to pay interest and repay principal for our substantial level of indebtedness is dependent on our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility, our existing notes and other indebtedness, which will reduce funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions; our ability to refinance such indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes may be impaired; we will be exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates; our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; we may be more vulnerable to the current economic downturn and adverse developments in our business; we may be unable to comply with financial and other restrictive covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; in the event of the insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or other winding up of our business, if there are not sufficient assets remaining to pay all creditors, then all or a portion of the amounts due on the notes then outstanding would remain unpaid; and changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities, adversely affect our access to debt markets, and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. we and our subsidiaries may be able to incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, subject to the restrictions contained in the existing credit agreements and the terms of our other indebtedness. our ability to access additional funding under our revolving credit facility will depend upon, among other things, the absence of a default under such facility, including any default arising from a failure to comply with the related covenants. if we are unable to comply with such covenants, our liquidity may be adversely affected. as of march 31, 2017, approximately $3.7 billion of our debt bore interest at variable rates and the adverse effect of a 50-basis point increase in interest rates would have increased such total annual cash interest by approximately $19 million. our ability to meet expenses, to remain in compliance with our covenants under our debt instruments and to make future principal and interest payments in respect of our debt depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. we are not able to control many of these factors. accordingly, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including the notes, and meet our other obligations. our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. the existing credit agreements contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: incur additional debt; create liens on certain assets to secure debt; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; 19 table of contents pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. all of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. we may not have sufficient cash flows from operating activities to service or repay our indebtedness and meet our other cash needs and may be forced to take other actions to satisfy our obligations under our indebtedness, which may not be successful. our ability to make payments on and to refinance our indebtedness will depend on our ability to generate cash in the future. our ability to generate cash will be subject to general economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors, some of which are beyond our control. in particular, we have $6,810 million in aggregate principal amount of debt that is maturing within the next five fiscal years, $1,310 million of which is now being classified as current. if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. our future cash flow, cash on hand or available borrowings may not be sufficient to meet our obligations and commitments. if we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service or repay our indebtedness and to meet our other commitments, we will be required to adopt one or more alternatives, such as refinancing or restructuring our indebtedness, selling material assets or operations or seeking to raise additional debt or equity capital. these actions may not be effected on a timely basis or on satisfactory terms or at all, or these actions may not enable us to continue to satisfy our capital requirements. in addition, the existing credit agreements contain and any of our other debt agreements may contain restrictive covenants that may prohibit us from adopting any of these alternatives. our failure to comply with these covenants could result in an event of default which, if not cured or waived, could result in the acceleration of all our debts. in addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, none of which are generally guarantors of our debt. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. in general our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. if we cannot make scheduled payments on our debt, we will be in default, and as a result, certain of our creditors could declare all outstanding principal and interest to be due and payable, the lenders under our revolving credit facility could terminate their commitments to loan money and we could be forced into bankruptcy or liquidation. our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our products and offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products and offerings, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. furthermore, our employees or contractors may, either intentionally or unintentionally, subject us to information security risks and incidents. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary 20 table of contents software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. if we are unable to adequately address increased customer demands through our technical support services, our relationships with our customers and our financial results may be adversely affected. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees as a result. in connection with the acquisition of blue coat, we experienced management turnover and this may lead to employee attrition and related difficulties and these difficulties may continue or increase following our acquisition of lifelock. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company and the incidence of this increased in recent periods due to the transitions we have experienced over the last few years including the divestiture of veritas. for example, in connection with the blue coat acquisition, we appointed their chief executive officer, president and chief operating officer and chief financial officer to those positions in our company in fiscal 2017. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. these risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the transitions we have experienced over the last few years. our contracts with the u.s. government include compliance, audit and review obligations. any failure to meet these obligations could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a gsa contract. in the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 36 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of march 31, 2017 , we had $4.6 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes and convertible senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $4.6 billion and a fair value of $4.6 billion , based on level 2 inputs. as of april 1, 2016 , we had $2.3 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $2.2 billion and a fair value of $2.3 billion , based on level 2 inputs. we have considered the historical volatility of interest rates and determined that it is possible that adverse changes in interest rates related to our fixed and variable rate debt could occur. a reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 50-basis points could result in a $92 million fair value reduction of our fixed-rate borrowings as of march 31, 2017 , compared to a $41 million fair value reduction as of april 1, 2016 . a reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 50-basis points in the effective interest rate of our $3.7 billion of variable-rate borrowings could result in an incremental $19 million of pre-tax interest expense on an annualized basis. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in numerous currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. our entities conduct their businesses in the primary local currency in which they operate, however, they may also conduct business in other currencies. to the extent our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues or incur costs in currencies other than the entity's functional currency, they are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses and impacts to margins as a result. as part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to six months in duration to help mitigate foreign exchange risk, however we are not able to mitigate all of our foreign exchange risk. we have considered historical trends in exchange rates and determined that it is possible that adverse changes in exchange rates for any currency could occur. the estimated impacts of a ten percent appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency are as follows in millions: march 31, 2017 april 1, 2016 change in fair value due to 10% change in fair value due to 10% foreign exchange forward contract notional amount appreciation depreciation notional amount appreciation depreciation purchased $ 492 $ 49 $ (49 ) $ 693 $ 69 $ (69 ) sold (204 ) (20 ) 20 (198 ) (19 ) 19 total net outstanding contracts $ 288 $ 29 $ (29 ) $ 495 $ 50 $ (50 ) we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors . we encourage you to read that section carefully. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview symantec corporation is a global leader in cyber security. we provide cyber security products, services, and solutions to more than 350,000 organizations and 50 million individuals worldwide. our integrated cyber defense platform helps business and government customers unify cloud and on-premises security to deliver a more effective cyber defense solution, while driving down cost and complexity. our cyber safety solutions from norton lifelock help consumers protect their devices, online privacy, identities, and home networks. our business and consumer offerings are powered by the largest civilian threat intelligence network, which uses artificial intelligence, machine learning, and human intelligence to analyze trillions of rows of data every day across hundreds of millions of devices to discover and help prevent advanced threats that might otherwise go undetected. we believe this threat intelligence data is a competitive advantage, and a primary way we are able to provide faster and better protection for customers. founded in 1982, symantec has operations in more than 45 countries. our headquarters are located at 350 ellis street, mountain view, california. our internet home page is located at www.symantec.com. the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. fiscal 2019 business highlights during fiscal 2019, we continued to make progress enhancing and expanding our product and services portfolio and improving product integration, partner integration, and sales delivery to help enterprise customers deploy our integrated cyber defense platform. we also made progress driving market adoption and increasing customer retention of our consumer cyber safety (previously called consumer digital safety) solutions, building on our norton lifelock product portfolio. in addition, we implemented operational improvements to reduce costs and complexity, building on the business transformation programs we completed in fiscal 2019, and leveraged synergies from the successful integration of our acquired businesses. our product development teams built extensive point-to-point integrations across endpoint, network, cloud, and email security products, responding to customer demand to consolidate vendors and enhance their security posture across control points. we further extended our integrated cyber defense (icd) platform through application programming interfaces (apis) and engineering-level integration with more than 120 certified technology partners that have developed or are in the process of developing over 250 integrations of complementary products and services to expand our ecosystem, helping businesses implement a coordinated and robust approach to threat protection, detection, and response that improves security outcomes and drives down cost and complexity. we expanded the marketing of bundled offerings of cyber safety services for consumers through the integration of our norton-branded security services with lifelock-branded identity theft protection services, to help individuals and families combat ever-evolving cyberthreats. bundling these solutions enables us to combine our norton and lifelock demand generation and customer relationship management programs to drive new customer acquisition, improve retention, and cross-sell within our large installed base. we launched significant new products to advance our portfolio and competitive position: symantec advanced edr tools and managed edr: we introduced symantec's advanced endpoint detection and response (edr) tools and fully managed edr (medr) service, enabling security teams around the world to stay ahead of threats. edr improves incident response, threat hunting, and forensics, fortifying teams with investigation expertise and threat intelligence from a world-class team of security operations center analysts. medr detects stealthy attacks and examines suspicious activity for faster incident validation and response. cloud security portfolio enhancements: we expanded our cloud security portfolio to help organizations protect cloud applications and related infrastructure. our icd platform offers robust cloud protection, providing visibility and control for virtually any cloud app, and integrations with cloudsoc casb, cloud workload protection (cwp), and data loss protection (dlp), while enabling customers to track more risk attributes and scan cloud applications and repositories with new api integrations. data loss prevention enhancements for office 365: we introduced new features to protect data, whether at rest or in transit, on-premises or in the cloud, and everywhere it flows through a single management console. cloud-based network security with web isolation: we introduced industry-first web isolation technology that integrates into our web security service (wss) and enables web browsing, nearly eliminating the risk of infection by zero-day malware or advanced threats. cloud-based network security with integrated endpoint protection : we introduced improved network-to-endpoint protection with the integration of symantec endpoint protection (sep) and sep mobile into wss, allowing web traffic re-directs to wss for enforcement of network security policies while consequently eliminating the need for a separate agent to manage traffic flow. our new sd-cloud connector enables customers to combine the performance and reliability of software defined wan (sd-wan) technology with our 4 table of contents wss to create a simple, high-performance method to connect branch office locations with our leading cloud security service. targeted attack analytics: we expanded our advanced threat protection (atp) offering to include our targeted attack technology. this feature enables atp customers to leverage advanced machine learning to automate the discovery of targeted attacks, one of the most dangerous intrusions in corporate networks. consistent with our strategy of acquiring companies with complementary technology to enhance our products, services, and solutions and speed time to market, we completed several acquisitions during our fiscal year 2019, including the following: appthority. with this acquisition, we are able to provide mobile application security to our consumer cyber safety customers, enabling them to analyze mobile apps for both malicious capabilities and unsafe and unwanted behaviors, such as vulnerabilities, risk of sensitive data loss, and privacy-invasive actions. javelin . this acquisition brings advanced software technology to our enterprise security solutions, enabling enterprises to defend against active directory-based (ad) attacks through detection of ad misconfigurations and backdoors to help prevent ad reconnaissance and credentials misuse by authorized devices and applications. luminate. with this acquisition, our solutions now incorporate software defined perimeter and zero trust technology enabling us to deliver private secure application access to all users, regardless of device, location, or infrastructure, extending the power of our icd platform to users and significantly extending our leadership in cloud security beyond alternative approaches. we expanded our strategic partnerships in our enterprise security and consumer cyber safety segments, including: fortinet . we entered into an expansive partnership agreement with fortinet in an effort to provide customers with comprehensive and robust firewall security solutions. under this arrangement, we intend to integrate fortinet's next-generation firewall (ngfw) capabilities into our cloud-delivered wss and to integrate our endpoint protection solutions into the fortinet security fabric platform. this technology partnership is designed to provide essential security controls across endpoint, network, and cloud environments that are critical to enforcing the zero trust security framework, a model built on the reality that threats everywhere, both inside and outside an organization, require a multi-layered approach to prevention, detection, and response. aon . we entered into a strategic partnership with aon, as part of our longer-term strategy to drive consumer adoption through business-to-business-to-consumer relationships. aon offers solutions to help high net worth individuals defend their assets against cyber criminals. the partnership provides that we will offer to aon customers features across our consumer cyber safety solutions. we believe cyber safety is synergistic with many brands globally, such as insurers, banks, telecom providers and other organizations. as we expand cyber safety internationally and to address a growing array of vertical needs, we believe partnerships such as aon will expand the value we bring customers and the revenue potential for our consumer business. business strategy our strategy is to combine best-of-breed technology with unmatched scale to deliver a comprehensive cyber security set of solutions for business and government customers, as well as consumers. our enterprise security strategy is to leverage our icd platform, partner ecosystem and global threat intelligence network to deliver integrated cyber defense to business and government customers, helping them improve security while reducing cost and complexity. our icd platform enables us to acquire new customers and cross-sell our full portfolio of products and services to existing customers and to customers of partners in our expansive ecosystem, such as amazon.com inc.'s aws, box, inc., ibm security, microsoft corporation (microsoft), oracle corporation, servicenow, inc., splunk inc., and many others. our consumer cyber safety strategy is to combine and leverage our portfolio of norton and lifelock offerings to deliver a set of cyber safety solutions that address today's continually evolving and increasingly complex threat landscape. this threat landscape puts consumers at increased risk of having their security, online privacy, and identities compromised. as the risks to consumers shift from pc-based attacks to more sophisticated threats such as ransomware, identity theft, and privacy risks, our software and services provide a multi-layered approach to protect consumers, regardless of device, network, or location. products and services enterprise security portfolio: integrated cyber defense our enterprise security portfolio includes a deep and broad mix of products, services, and solutions, delivered as part of our icd platform. our platform unifies cloud and on-premises security to provide advanced threat protection and information protection across endpoints, networks, email, and cloud applications. key components of our icd platform include: advanced security services advanced threat protection: multiple layers of threat prevention, detection, and forensic technology provide a robust view of malicious activities across control points, enabling users to contain, investigate, and remediate threats. 5 table of contents information protection: encryption, data loss prevention, multi-factor authentication, tagging, and analytics enable businesses and governments to protect confidential information and it assets while managing compliance requirements and restricting access to authenticated users. identity management: cloud-based authentication service with multi-factor authentication to cloud apps, network, and virtual private network (vpn) to reduce the risk of breaches and unauthorized access. compliance enforcement: a suite of governance, risk, and compliance tools help customers inventory their it assets, evaluate vulnerabilities, govern information access, and automate compliance reporting for more than 100 regulatory and best-practice frameworks including gdpr, hipaa, nist, pci, and swift. third-party applications: over 250 tipp (technology integration partner program) certified integrations enhance productivity for security operations and incident response teams while extending the value of current cyber investments. control points endpoint security: a single agent architecture delivers multi-layered security across endpoints - desktop, server, mobile, and iot - and enables customers to protect enterprise and mobile workforces, regardless of operating system, device, or network security approaches. network security: cloud and on-premises network security solutions, based on an advanced proxy architecture, provide superior defense against advanced threats, enable users to protect critical business information, and help ensure secure and compliant use of cloud applications and the web. email security: multiple layers of protection (including threat isolation and advanced analytics) against ransomware, spear phishing, and enterprise email compromise help identify targeted attacks and enable users to protect email against user error and data leakage. cloud application security: advanced solutions that secure cloud access, cloud infrastructure, and cloud applications, providing in-depth visibility, data security, and threat protection to safeguard users, information, and workloads across public and private clouds. cyber security services an integrated portfolio including managed security services, incident response, and deep sight threat intelligence, driven by our private network of cyber security analysts within our global security operations centers. icd platform foundations our solutions are powered by the following critical features: threat intelligence: the world's largest civilian threat intelligence network applies deep security research, expert analysis, and artificial intelligence to monitor and synthesize nine trillion rows of telemetry daily, helping discover and block targeted attacks and cybercrime that would otherwise go undetected. ai and machine learning services: artificial intelligence and machine learning analyze massive amounts of control point data and sift through our entire telemetry data set to help identify potential threats and accelerate response and remediation. api and icd exchange services: apis and icd exchange (icdx) vastly simplify integrations with icd, providing enhanced protection, investigation, and remediation across symantec endpoints, networks, email, cloud applications, and third-party products. icd manager services: a shared management console provides a single point of control for policy management, monitoring, and reporting. automation: built-in automation simplifies investigation, accelerates response times, and minimizes damages from attacks, while reducing manual processes and cost of security operations. open ecosystem an expansive set of open apis with over 100 certified technology partners creating the broadest ecosystem in cyber security, enabling a coordinated and best-in-class approach to threat protection, detection, and response. in addition to our core product portfolio, symantec offers enterprise security services including: consulting services: we provide the experience, expertise, and industry intelligence to assist enterprises to better architect, design, implement, and optimize their security software, people, and processes. symantec consultants guide enterprises toward solutions that meet their business goals and leave them with the knowledge to maintain and enhance their security environment. premium support services: our premium support services for enterprises focus on timely and accurate issue resolution by placing a product family expert at the center of a tailored support experience, who provides technical support, manages escalations, delivers case and system reviews, oversees environmental health checks, and provides proactive services such as upgrade planning and feature optimization. 6 table of contents cyber security services: we provide continual threat monitoring, customized guidance, and 24x7 personalized service within an enterprise's security environment through our managed security services, deep sight intelligence, and incident response services. consumer cyber safety portfolio our consumer cyber safety solutions consist primarily of the following product offerings which are being integrated into a unified user experience under the norton lifelock brand: norton security: our norton security solutions are available as a subscription service providing protection for devices against malware, viruses, adware, and ransomware on multiple platforms: windows, mac, android, and ios. users also have access to a password manager, parental controls, and safe web browsing that blocks malicious sites and filters browser search results. users also can perform secure cloud backups of photos, financial files, and other important documents on windows, providing additional protection in the event ransomware attacks make these files unavailable. for mobile devices, norton security also filters risky apps, enables stolen device recovery, provides contact recovery, and blocks unwanted spam texts and calls. norton security includes 24x7 support by trained support agents who are available to assist customers. lifelock identity theft protection: our lifelock identity theft protection solution provides identity monitoring, alerts, and restoration to our customers. lifelock puts users in control of their identity elements, including social security numbers, bank accounts, email addresses, physical addresses, and driver's license and phone numbers. the service alerts users on key events and recommends actions to prevent unauthorized access. if an identity theft takes place, lifelock's identity experts work with the user to restore their identities, managing interaction with various governmental agencies, financial institutions, and merchants - and addressing legal fees, wage loss, and associated damages. norton wi-fi privacy vpn: our norton wi-fi privacy vpn service offers a protected way to connect to the internet, encrypting data users send over internet connections and enhancing levels of privacy online. with this service, users can confidently access private information such as passwords, bank details, and credit card numbers when using public wi-fi on pc, mac, or mobile device without risk of compromise. users can also connect globally to their favorite apps, websites, and online streaming by changing their virtual location. this service also limits the ability of websites to track users, thereby eliminating persistent personalized ads based on browsing history. sales and go-to-market strategy our go-to-market network includes direct sales forces and broad e-commerce capabilities, as well as indirect sales resources that support our global partner ecosystem. we also maintain strategic relationships with a number of original equipment manufacturers (oems), internet service providers (isps), global service integrators (gsis), wireless carriers, and retail and online stores through which we market and sell our products. enterprise we sell and market our products and services to large enterprises, including business, government, and public-sector customers, through our field sales force and reseller channels. our field sales team leverages our global partner ecosystem, primarily targeting senior executives and it department personnel responsible for managing a company's highest-order it and cyber security initiatives. we also sell and market our products and services to small, medium, and large businesses through field sales and inside sales forces that leverage indirect sales partners around the world, who are specifically trained and certified to sell our solutions. these partners include national solution providers, regional solution providers, national account resellers, global/federal system integrators, and managed service providers. our enterprise products and services are also available on our e-commerce platform, as well as through authorized distributors, gsis, and oems, who incorporate our technologies into their products, bundle our products with their offerings, or serve as authorized resellers of our products. consumer we sell and market our consumer products and services to individuals, households, and small businesses globally. we bring these products to market through direct marketing and co-marketing programs supported by our e-commerce and tele-sales platforms. in addition, we utilize internet-based resellers, system builders, isps, employee benefits providers, wireless carriers, retailers, and oems to distribute our offerings worldwide. we drive consumer business growth through global brand and demand campaigns, new customer acquisition, retention focused cross-selling, and customer success programs. research and development symantec embraces a global research and development strategy to drive organic innovation and product integration across our portfolio. our engineering and product management teams are focused on delivering new versions of existing product lines, as well as developing entirely new products and services to drive the company's leadership in cyber security. we also have a technology research organization focused on short, medium, and longer-term applied research projects, with the goal of transferring completed innovations into our product groups for commercialization. 7 table of contents symantec's security technology and response organization is a global team of security engineers, threat analysts, and researchers who provide the underlying functionality, content, and support for many of our solutions. these front-line security experts analyze threat telemetry collected through our vast cyber intelligence networks to protect our customers against current and emerging threats. our research and development teams also leverage these vast data sets and insights to develop new technologies and approaches in order to improve security outcomes for our customers. we believe that technical leadership is essential to our success, and we expect to continue to commit substantial resources to research and development. product and technical support symantec has support facilities throughout the world, staffed by technical product experts knowledgeable in the operating environments in which our products are deployed. our support experts assist customers with both issue resolution and threat detection. we provide enterprise security customers with various levels of technical support and customer success services. our support program offers annual maintenance support contracts, including content, updates, and technical support. our essential support includes: self-service options, assisted support delivered by telephone or electronically during contracted-for hours, immediate patches for severe problems, periodic software updates, and access to our technical knowledge base and frequently asked questions. our premium support includes all essential support services with the addition of proactive health checks, assigned technical contacts, and other customer success activities. our consumer cyber safety support includes self-help online services and phone, chat, and email support worldwide. most of our norton security products come with automatic downloads of the latest virus definitions, application bug fixes, and patches, as well as a virus protection promise, which in some markets provides free virus removal services to customers whose protected computers become infected. our consumer cyber safety service and support offerings come with 24x7x365 customer support, along with alert resolution, lost wallet protection, and restoration services during normal business hours. competition our markets are consolidating, highly competitive, and subject to rapid changes in technology. the competitive landscape has changed significantly over the past few years, with new competition arising. some of the market growth has come from startups that focus on solving a particular issue or delivering a niche-oriented product, and from larger integration providers that increasingly seek to add to or extend their offerings. we focus on delivering comprehensive customer solutions, integrating across our broad product portfolio, and partnering with other technology providers to differentiate our offerings and platforms from the competition. in addition to the competition we face from direct competitors, we face indirect or potential competition from retailers, application providers, operating system providers, network equipment manufacturers, and other oems who may provide various solutions and functions in their current and future offerings. we compete with these same parties to acquire technologies, products, or companies. we also compete with other software companies in our effort to place our products on the computer equipment sold to consumers and enterprises by oems. we compete for access to distribution channels and for spending at the retail level for our consumer offerings and in corporate accounts for our enterprise offerings. our enterprise security competitors vary by product category, geography, channel, and customer size: endpoint security competitors include mcafee llc (mcafee), microsoft, crowdstrike, inc., and carbon black, inc., as well as several point-product competitors, freeware providers, and regional security companies. network security competitors include palo alto networks inc. (palo alto), fireeye inc. (fireeye), cisco systems, inc. (cisco), mcafee, forcepoint llc (forcepoint), and zscaler, inc., as well as other established and emerging companies. cloud security competitors include cisco, mcafee, microsoft, and netskope, inc., as well as other established and emerging companies. we expect additional competition as the market for security-as-a-service continues to develop and expand. email security competitors include proofpoint, inc. and microsoft. advanced threat protection competitors include mcafee, palo alto, fireeye, international business machines corporation (ibm), and dell emc, as well as niksun inc. and trend micro inc. (trend micro). as new it budgets are created to address next-generation threats, we expect to compete with additional specialized vendors, as well as larger vendors that may continue to acquire or bundle their products. information protection competitors include rsa (a dell technologies business), mcafee, forcepoint, digital guardian, inc., and microsoft. cyber security services and managed security services competitors include fireeye, ibm, and secureworks corporation, as well as other additional established and emerging companies. our consumer cyber safety competitors vary by product category, geography, and channel. norton security competitors include avast software s.r.o., mcafee, microsoft, and trend micro. consumer backup product competitors include carbonite, inc. lifelock identity theft protection competitors include credit bureaus experian plc, equifax inc., and transunion, as well as others including affinion group, inc., anchor free, inc., credit karma, inc., and intersections, inc. 8 table of contents we believe that the principal competitive factors necessary to be successful in our industry include product quality and effectiveness, time-to-market, price, reputation, financial stability, breadth of product offerings, customer support, brand recognition, and effective sales and marketing efforts. intellectual property protective measures our intellectual property is an important and vital asset of the company that enables us to develop, market, and sell our products and services and enhance our competitive position. intellectual property includes our proprietary business and technical know-how, inventions, works of authorship, and confidential information. to protect our intellectual property, we rely primarily upon legal rights in trade secrets, patents, copyrights, and trademarks, in addition to company policies and procedures, security practices, contracts, and relevant operational measures. we protect the confidentiality of proprietary information by entering into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, contractors, and channel and business partners, and we enter into license agreements with respect to our software and proprietary information that include confidentiality terms. these agreements are generally non-transferable and have either a perpetual or time-limited term. we also publish company policies on trade secret protection and employ access controls and associated security measures to protect our facilities, equipment, and networks. patents, copyrights, trademarks, and licenses we maintain an internal patent program with the objective of identifying inventions that provide the basis for new patent applications in areas of importance to our business. we have approximately 2,345 u.s. patents, in addition to foreign patents and pending u.s. and foreign patent applications, which relate to inventive aspects of our products and technology. the duration of our patents is determined by the laws of the issuing country. in the u.s., this is typically twenty years from the date of filing of the priority patent application resulting in the patent, which we believe is adequate relative to expected product lifecycles. our products, particularly our software and related documentation, are protected under u.s. and international copyright laws and laws related to the protection of intellectual property and proprietary rights. we employ procedures to label copyrightable works with the appropriate proprietary rights notices, and we actively enforce these rights in the u.s. and abroad. however, these measures may not provide adequate protection, and our intellectual property rights may be challenged. symantec, norton, lifelock, and associated logos, including the checkmark in a circle logo, are trademarks or registered trademarks of the company in the u.s. and other countries in which we conduct business. in addition, we have used, registered, or applied to register other trademarks and service marks to help distinguish our products and services from those of our competitors. we actively enforce our trademark, service mark, and trade name rights in the u.s. and abroad based on our rights under common law, and various u.s. and foreign laws and regulations, as well as rights under international treaties and conventions. the duration of our trademark registrations varies from country to country. in the u.s., we are generally able to maintain our trademark rights and renew trademark registrations for as long as the trademarks are in use. in limited cases, we license intellectual property from third parties for use in our products and generally must rely on those third parties to protect the licensed rights. this can include open source software which is not subject to proprietary rights protection. while the ability to maintain and protect our intellectual property rights is important to our success, we believe our business is not materially dependent on any individual patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret, license, or other intellectual property right. seasonality as is typical for many technology companies, our business is subject to seasonality. see our quarterly results of operations in selected quarterly financial data (unaudited) included in part ii, item 8 of this annual report on form 10-k. corporate responsibility our annual corporate responsibility report can be found via the symantec website at https://www.symantec.com/about/corporate-responsibility. the information contained, or referred to, on our website, including our corporate responsibility report, is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. employees as of march 29, 2019 , we employed more than 11,900 people worldwide. available information our internet home page is located at www.symantec.com. we make available free of charge our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the securities and exchange commission (sec) on our investor relations website located at www.symantec.com/invest. the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov. item 1a. risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive, and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. 9 table of contents a decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our solutions due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, the timing and duration of hardware refresh cycles, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, public awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our sales. if demand for our solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions, a shift in buying patterns or otherwise, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of our outstanding securities in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected. volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our solutions may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including but not limited to: fluctuations in our revenue due to the transition of our sales contracts to a higher mix of products subject to ratable versus point-in-time revenue recognition; fluctuations in demand for our solutions; entry of new competition into our markets; our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins and revenues; competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of our solutions; our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions; the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware, and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches); our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter; customers' tendency to negotiate licenses and other agreements near the end of each quarter; cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers; loss of customers or strategic partners; changes in the mix or type of products and subscriptions sold and changes in the renewal rates for our subscriptions; the rate of adoption of new technologies, new releases of operating systems, and new business processes; consumer confidence and spending changes, which could be impacted by market changes and general economic conditions, among other reasons; political and military instability caused by war or other events, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively; the timing, rate and pricing of customer purchases to replace older versions of our hardware products that have reached end of life; the impact of litigation, regulatory inquiries, or investigations; the timing and extent of significant restructuring charges; the impact of acquisitions and our ability to achieve expected synergies; disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; movements in interest rates; and changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations. any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly. our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services, and cloud-based (cloud) offerings. a large portion of our enterprise security revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services, and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. in particular, term-based license subscriptions and cloud-based products are increasing as 10 table of contents a percentage of our total revenues. while we believe our customers' renewal rates, in general, have been relatively stable in recent periods, customer retention and renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including our customers' level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets, and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline. accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. if these efforts fail, if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if our customers renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline, and our business will suffer. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our competitive position may weaken, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. if we are unable to anticipate or react to competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. additionally, we must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends and competitive developments, such as the emergence of advanced persistent threats in the security space, the continued volatility in the pc market, the market shift towards mobility, and the increasing transition towards subscription and cloud-based solutions, all of which continue to make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. for example, although we have been investing heavily in solutions that address the cloud security market, we cannot be certain that it will develop at a rate or in the manner we expect or that we will be able to compete successfully with new entrants or more established competitors. customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. our failure to develop new solutions and improve our existing solutions that satisfy customer preferences and effectively compete with other market offerings in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and to create or increase demand for our solutions, which may adversely impact our operating results. the development and introduction of new solutions involves a significant commitment of time and resources and are subject to a number of risks and challenges including but not limited to: lengthy development cycles; evolving industry standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers; evolving platforms, operating systems, and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges; entering into new or unproven markets; executing new product and service strategies; trade compliance difficulties; developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new or improved solutions are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber-security experts), sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, especially in and around our headquarters in the silicon valley, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees as a result. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we must provide competitive pay packages, including cash and equity-based compensation. additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. if we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business, results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans. as a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 11 table of contents effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team. for example, we are initiating a chief executive officer transition process, and appointed an interim president and chief executive officer. additionally, our chief operating officer resigned in november 2018 and, as previously disclosed, our chief financial officer is stepping down and is being replaced by a new chief financial officer as of the date hereof. although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our solutions that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges, or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored by our customers. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (oems) and internet service providers (isps). our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors' solutions than our own. in addition, software and cloud-based vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors' solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers, and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured solutions, such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and operating results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our solutions, reduced profitability, and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks. our cloud offerings are critical to our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we have made and are continuing to make significant investments in, and devoting significant resources to develop and deploy, our own cloud strategies. we cannot assure you that our ongoing investments in and development of our cloud infrastructure and related cloud offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring significant costs to build, execute upon, and maintain the infrastructure needed to support our cloud offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based solutions that generate increasing traffic and market share; and 12 table of contents ensuring that our cloud offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. we invest in research and development activities in both the short and long term, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, we also continue to invest significantly in research and development activities, in both the short and long term, as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods. we recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuance of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry structure and market conditions, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting certain businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. matters relating to or arising from our completed audit committee investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. as previously disclosed in our public filings, the audit committee completed its internal investigation in september 2018. in connection with the audit committee investigation, we voluntarily contacted the sec. the sec commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. the outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict. if the sec commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order, and other equitable remedies. we can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal and other professional services in connection with the ongoing sec investigation, which may continue to adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors, and officers (see also, we are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings . . . below). the outcome of the securities class actions and other litigation and regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions is difficult to predict, and the cost to defend, settle, or otherwise resolve these matters may be significant. plaintiffs or regulatory agencies or authorities in these matters may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts or seek to impose sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. the monetary and other impact of these litigations, proceedings, or actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. further, an unfavorable resolution of litigations, proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. any future investigations or additional lawsuits may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business. several securities class action and purported derivative lawsuits have been filed against us arising out of the announcement of the audit committee investigation. in addition, we have received demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under delaware law. no specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits. we will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. the expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. if any of the lawsuits related to our audit committee investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable, and these actions may divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. 13 table of contents the delayed filing of some of our periodic sec reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on form s-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions. as a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the sec in connection with the completed audit committee investigation, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on form s-3 until december 2019, at the earliest. registering the offer and sale of our securities prior to the time we are eligible to use form s-3 may increase our transaction costs, and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition. our indemnification obligations and limitations of our director and officer liability insurance may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. under delaware law, our certificate of incorporation, our bylaws, and certain indemnification agreements to which we are a party, we have an obligation to indemnify, or we have otherwise agreed to indemnify, certain of our current and former directors and officers with respect to past, current, and future investigations and litigation. the scope of our indemnification obligations may be broader than the coverage available under our directors' and officers' liability insurance, or there may be insufficient coverage available. further, in the event the directors and officers are ultimately determined not to be entitled to indemnification, we may not be able to recover any amounts we previously advanced to them. we cannot provide any assurances that future indemnification claims, including the cost of fees, penalties or other expenses, will not exceed the limits of our insurance policies, that such claims are covered by the terms of our insurance policies or that our insurance carrier will be able to cover such claims. further, should a coverage dispute arise, we may also incur significant expenses in relation to litigating or attempting to resolve any such dispute. accordingly, we may incur significant unreimbursed costs to satisfy our indemnification obligations, which may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face, in addition to general and economic business conditions, can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain solutions or develop products or support offerings that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, a weakening of economic conditions or significant uncertainty regarding the stability of financial markets could adversely impact our business, financial condition, and operating results in a number of ways. impacts could include longer sales cycles, pressure to lower prices for our solutions, a reduction in the rate of adoption of our solutions by new customers, and a lower rate of current customers purchasing upgrades to our current solutions. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. we or our competitors may bundle solutions for promotional purposes or as a long-term go-to-market or pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our offerings. defects, disruptions or risks related to our cloud offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation, or otherwise negatively impact our business. our cloud offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our cloud offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our cloud offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. if any such performance problems occur, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts or warranty, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. we currently serve our cloud-based customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. global climate change may result in certain natural disasters occurring more frequently or with greater intensity, such as drought, wildfires, storms, sea-level rise, and flooding. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable. our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications, and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed. because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our solutions or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our solutions. our customers' 14 table of contents computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in solutions released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our solutions in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our solutions than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security, or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer's systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our solutions could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures, our capital, and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations. while we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks, and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and websites may cause. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. furthermore, our business administration, human resources, and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication, and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, and deficiencies may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact our ability to certify our financial results, all of which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. if these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions. any errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers' businesses. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our websites simultaneously, fraud, or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. in addition, our business would be harmed if any of the events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. 15 table of contents we collect, use, disclose, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business. we collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings. we process an increasingly high volume, variety, and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and information protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. the personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. for example, the european union general data protection regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues. data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the u.s. at both the federal and state level. for example, in june 2018, the state of california enacted the california consumer privacy act of 2018 (the ccpa), which will come into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. however, california legislators have stated that they intend to propose amendments to the ccpa, and it remains unclear what, if any, modifications will be made to the ccpa or how it will be interpreted. additionally, the federal trade commission (the ftc) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. the burdens imposed by the ccpa and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial expenditures in order to comply. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. we may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country. if any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply. the expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition. additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk. in addition, o ur customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. this could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. in addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers' records. our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire or divest businesses or assets. these activities can involve a number of risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, it systems, and technologies; diversion of management time and attention; loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including pending or future litigation, investigations or claims related to the acquired business or assets; the addition of acquisition-related debt; increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements; dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense. we have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire. the success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and 16 table of contents business systems of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests and we may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above. in addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, divest businesses, product lines, or assets. such initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management's time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs, and accounting charges for asset impairments. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our acquired or divested businesses, product lines or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts; difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization; substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our solutions, including regular updates to our products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates; increased administrative costs in processing orders and increased credit risk in pursuing payment from each end user; and increased responsibility for custom and export activities that may result in added costs. indirect sales channels . a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including, but not limited to, distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers; our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our solutions to end-users; our resellers and distributors may violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions; our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us. oem sales channels. a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of products delivered and the timing of such delivery; most of our oem partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements. generally, our oem partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers; our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales; the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues; the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our solutions may make it more difficult to introduce those solutions to the market; and 17 table of contents our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us, and we may have reduced revenues or collections that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could adversely affect our operating results. we face heightened regulation in our consumer cyber safety segment, which could impede our ability to market and provide our solutions or adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. we are subject to heightened regulation in our consumer cyber safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we sell as a result of our acquisition of lifelock, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the fair credit reporting act, the gramm-leach-bliley act, the federal trade commission act (ftc act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the ftc act. moreover, lifelock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the ftc and 35 states' attorneys general in 2010 and a settlement with the ftc in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of lifelock's advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the ftc act, which impose additional restrictions on the lifelock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of lifelock's identity theft protection services. any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business. additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the consumer financial protection bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s., and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions, and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors; regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s.; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability, and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers' ability to obtain financing for our products or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries; costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. 18 table of contents a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. is denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we have in the past and expect in the future to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the u.s. continue to increase. for example, the united kingdom's (u.k.) planned exit from the european union (eu) (brexit) has caused and may continue to cause significant volatility in global financial markets and will likely have an adverse impact on labor and trade in addition to creating further short-term uncertainty and currency volatility. in the absence of a future trade deal, the u.k.'s trade with the european union and the rest of the world would be subject to tariffs and duties set by the world trade organization. any adjustments we make to our business and operations as a result of brexit could result in significant time and expense to complete. while we have not experienced any material financial impact from brexit on our business to date, we cannot predict its future implications. any impact from brexit on our business and operations over the long term will depend, in part, on the outcome of tariff, tax treaties, trade, regulatory, and other negotiations the u.k. conducts. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. from time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions, and governmental claims, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages, or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend, and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in delivery delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: 19 table of contents changes to the u.s. federal income tax laws, including impacts of the tax cuts and jobs act (h.r.1) (the 2017 tax act) arising from future interpretations of the 2017 tax act; changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the organisation for economic co-operation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies such as digital services taxation, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. we cannot predict our future capital needs, and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. adverse economic conditions or a change in our business performance may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions or divestitures), or financing activities. any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. if additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, and access to capital markets. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition. as of march 29, 2019, we had an aggregate of $4.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature in calendar years 2020 through 2025, including approximately $4.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of existing senior notes and $0.5 billion of outstanding term loans under our senior credit facilities, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future and/or enter into new financing arrangements. in addition, as of march 29, 2019, we had $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. our ability to meet expenses, to remain in compliance with the covenants under our debt instruments, and to pay interest and repay principal for our substantial level of indebtedness depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments, and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. we are not able to control many of these factors. accordingly, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including the notes, and meet our other obligations. our level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility, our existing senior notes, and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions; we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates; our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; 20 table of contents we may be more vulnerable to an economic downturn and adverse developments in our business; we may be unable to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; and changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of our debt and/or our common stock, adversely affect our access to debt markets, and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment, or otherwise. in general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. the existing credit agreements contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: incur additional debt; create liens on certain assets to secure debt; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. all of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. our contracts with the u.s. government include compliance, audit, and review obligations. any failure to meet these obligations could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a gsa contract. in the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 35 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk our short-term investments primarily consist of corporate bonds. an increase in interest could have an adverse impact on its market value. as of march 29, 2019 , the fair value of our short-term investments was $252 million . a hypothetical increase in the corporate bonds' yield curve of 50 basis points would not result in a significant reduction in fair value. as of march 29, 2019 , we had $4.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes and convertible senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount and a fair value of $4.0 billion , based on level 2 inputs. since these notes bear interest at fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change. as of march 29, 2019 , we also had $500 million outstanding debt with variable interest rates based on the london interbank offered rate (libor). a reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 50 basis points in libor would not result in a significant increase in interest expense on an annualized basis. in addition, we have a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility that if drawn bears interest at a variable rate based on libor and would be subject to the same risks associated with adverse changes in libor. 35 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in numerous currencies through our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity's functional currency primarily in euro, japanese yen, and british pound. in addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services we provide. our cash flow, results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. as a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses which impacts our operating results. we have a foreign exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our reported consolidated cash flows and results of operations through which we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries with up to twelve months in duration. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. the gains and losses on these foreign exchange contracts are recorded in interest and other, net in our statement of operations. as of march 29, 2019 , we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $1.1 billion to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposure, with an insignificant fair value. a hypothetical ten percent depreciation of foreign currency would result in a reduction in fair value of our forward contracts of $84 million for fiscal 2019. this analysis disregards the possibilities that the rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area. in addition, to help protect the net investment in a foreign operation from adverse changes in foreign currency exchange rates, during fiscal 2019, we initiated a program under which we may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts to offset the changes in the carrying amounts of these investments due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. as of march 29, 2019 , the notional amount of the related outstanding forward contracts was $116 million , and their fair value was not significant. these contracts reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements on investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency gains and losses on these contracts are recorded in other comprehensive income. for additional details related to our derivative instruments, please see note 9 - derivatives to our consolidated financial statements included in this report. 36 table of contentsrisk factors 7 risk factors . we encourage you to read that section carefully. 3 table of contents part i item 1. business overview nortonlifelock is a trusted brand and leading provider of cyber safety solutions for consumers worldwide. our business is built around the prevention, detection and restoration of potential damages caused by cyber criminals. the need for nortonlifelock's products is more critical than ever in today's increasingly digital world, as people transition to remote work environments, conduct virtual meetings, and engage in online gaming, streaming, shopping, telemedicine and numerous other online transactions and activities on a daily basis. with each new digital interaction comes increased risk for consumers as cyber criminals look to take advantage of this accelerating trend. nortonlifelock stands between today's cyber criminals and consumers, helping secure the devices, identities, online privacy, and home and family needs of nearly 50 million consumers globally. we are a trusted ally for our customers in a complex digital world and are committed to advancing our mission of protecting each element of their digital lives. we offer subscription-based cyber safety solutions to consumers under the nortonlifelock brand, with our integrated cyber safety platform norton 360. norton 360's integrated experience, and substantial scale and reach, provide extensive cyber safety coverage to our members. in addition to norton 360, we also offer standalone products for device security, privacy, identity, and home and family protection in certain channels and geographies. we sell our products primarily direct-to-consumer through our in-house e-commerce platform, and indirectly through partner relationships with retailers, telecom service providers, hardware original equipment manufacturers (oems), and employee benefit providers. most of our subscriptions are sold on either annual or monthly terms. as of april 3, 2020, we served over 20 million direct customers and approximately 30 million more through partners or other indirect channels. our annual retention rate was 85% for fiscal 2020. please see performance metrics under management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in item 7. our transformation into a pure-play consumer company follows the sale of our enterprise assets and name change from symantec corporation to nortonlifelock inc. founded in 1982, we formerly did business under the symantec corporation name as the consumer cyber safety division. the sale of our enterprise security assets to broadcom inc. (broadcom) and the sale of our id analytics business to lexisnexis risk solutions, part of relx inc., were completed in fiscal year 2020. industry overview cyber crime, and the ways in which cyber criminals target consumers, continue to evolve along with behaviors and technology. cyber crime encompasses any crime committed digitally over the internet and includes crimes where (i) malicious software or unauthorized access is detected on a device, network or online account (including email, social media, online banking, online retail, etc.); (ii) an individual is digitally victimized through a data breach, cyber theft, cyber extortion, or fraud (stolen personally identifiable information, identity theft); or (iii) online stalking, bullying, or harassment is inflicted. as cyber crime becomes an intensifying threat to our world, consumers are increasingly concerned. our annual nortonlifelock cyber safety insights report evaluates current cyber crime trends to provide a snapshot of the impact of cyber crime. according to the 2019 report, which is based on research conducted online by the harris poll on behalf of us, almost 500 million consumers have been the victim of a cyber crime, with nearly 350 million in the last year alone. while many report having taken at least one step to protect their online activities and personal information, most people are taking only basic steps (clearing cookies, limiting information shared on social media) and few are going to greater lengths such as using anonymous payment methods, deleting social media accounts, or using a virtual private network (vpn). for more insights or information related to our nortonlifelock cyber safety insights report, please visit https://us.norton.com/nortonlifelock-cyber-safety-report . the information contained, or referred to, on our website, including our cyber safety insights report, is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. cyber safety solutions and services we help consumers by providing cyber safety subscription solutions with an integrated user experience under the nortonlifelock brand, called norton 360. our norton 360 subscriptions include multiple levels of membership tiers that incorporate solutions from each of our cyber safety categories: device security, identity protection, online privacy, and home and family safety. we also provide these solutions as standalone products in certain channels and geographies. our consumer cyber safety solutions include the following offerings: device security (norton security): our norton security solution provides real-time protection for pcs, macs and mobile devices against malware, viruses, adware, ransomware and other online threats. it monitors and blocks unauthorized traffic from the internet to the device to help protect private and sensitive information when customers are online. for mobile devices, norton security alerts customers of risky apps, safeguards against fraudulent and malicious websites, identifies wi-fi networks that are under attack, enables stolen device recovery, and blocks unwanted spam and potential fraud calls. norton security includes 24x7 support by trained support agents. we provide on-call support and offer a money-back guarantee if we cannot remove viruses from infected devices through our virus protection promise. identity protection (lifelock identity theft protection): our lifelock identity theft protection solution includes monitoring, alerts and restoration services to protect the safety of our customers. we monitor events that may present a risk of identity theft, such as new account openings and applications. if we detect that a customer's personally identifiable 4 table of contents information is being used, we deliver notifications and alerts to our customers about potentially suspicious activity. in the event of identity theft, we assign an identity restoration specialist to work directly with customers to help restore their identities. customers are further protected by our million dollar protection package, which provides reimbursement for stolen funds and coverage for personal expenses. online privacy (norton secure vpn and surfeasy vpn): as people are exchanging more sensitive information through digital channels - be it personal healthcare information to enable tele-health or financial information for personal accounting, having a vpn has become even more crucial. our norton secure vpn and surfeasy vpn enhance security and online privacy by providing an encrypted data tunnel. this allows customers to securely transmit and access private information such as passwords, bank details and credit card numbers when using public wi-fi on pcs, macs and mobile ios and android devices. our vpn service allows customers to browse the web anonymously to protect their online privacy and prevent tracking by online advertisers and other companies. customers can also change their virtual location when they are traveling internationally to allow them to connect to their favorite apps, websites and online streaming services as if they are in their home-country. home and family (norton family): as entire households now spend hours online, whether for school, work, or personal use, protecting the home and family in a simple way is even more of a need. norton family brings the protection and security of our products to every member of the family across multiple devices and platforms. norton family also provides parental controls tools for parents to monitor kids' online activities, including videos watched, websites visited, terms searched, and apps downloaded. parents can manage how much time kids spend online and block access to inappropriate websites. norton family also provides gps location monitoring for mobile devices and content filtering for pcs. our strategy our goal is to be the trusted cyber security partner for consumers across the globe and enable them to manage their digital lives safely. the threat landscape is larger, more complicated and more connected than ever before, exposing consumers to an increased risk to their security, online privacy, home networks and identities. as the risks to consumers continue to expand from device-based attacks to more sophisticated threats such as fraud, ransomware, identity theft and privacy risks, our solutions have evolved to provide a multi-layered approach in protecting against threats, detecting attacks and helping customers manage across their digital footprint, including their technology, applications, networks and identities. the cornerstone of our strategy is to provide consumers with a platform that brings together superior software and service capabilities to enable all facets of cyber safety, including device security, identity protection, online privacy, and home and family safety. by combining and leveraging our portfolio of norton and lifelock offerings, we are able to deliver an industry-leading set of cyber safety solutions. the key elements of our strategy to achieve this goal include the following: extend our leadership position through continued enhancement of our solutions and services. the cyber safety industry is large and expanding, which provides a significant growth opportunity. we intend to grow our business by investing in research and development and making acquisitions to expand the solutions and services we offer into new cohorts, territories and sectors. we believe there are many additional areas where we can both offer new solutions, as well as use our core capabilities to deliver offerings to new customers and markets. grow our customer base. we intend to leverage our expertise in digital marketing, as well as existing and new strategic partnerships, to grow our customer base. we believe that continued investments in these areas, as well as our product offerings and infrastructure, will allow us to further enhance our leading brand and superior products, increase awareness of our consumer services and enhance our ability to efficiently acquire new customers. continue our focus on customer retention. we plan to invest in increasing customer retention by optimizing and expanding the value we provide through actionable alerts, education on timely topics, and new capabilities. we aim to provide our customers with peace of mind and convenience, demonstrating the value of our solutions. we plan to offer an integrated mobile application experience to improve customer experience from purchase, through onboarding and use. we have a global customer services organization, and we leverage frequent communication and feedback from our customers to continually improve our solutions and services. increase sales to existing customers. we believe the strong customer satisfaction we maintain with our customers provides us with the opportunity to engage them in new services offerings. we introduced norton 360 in april 2019, with various tiers of membership, and we are actively engaging with customers of standalone products to move them into a norton 360 membership. we also believe a substantial opportunity exists to increase the penetration of our premium-level consumer solutions. over time, we plan to add additional offerings and services for our customers to drive further growth. sales and marketing we execute a global, multi-channel direct acquisition and brand marketing program. we sell our products primarily direct-to-consumer through our in-house e-commerce platform, and indirectly through partner relationships with retailers, telecom service providers, hardware oems, and employee benefit providers. this program is designed to grow our customer base by increasing brand awareness and understanding of our superior products, as well as maximizing our reach to prospective customers. direct-to-consumer. we use advertising and direct response marketing to elevate our brand, attract new customers, and generate significant demand for our services. this program drives most bookings. 5 table of contents we use a variety of marketing programs to target customers, including digital marketing and online display advertising; paid search and search-engine optimization; radio, television, and print advertisements; direct mail campaigns; press coverage for our company and our services; third-party endorsements; and education programs. indirect partner distribution channels . we use strategic and affiliate partner distribution channels to refer prospective customers to us and expand our reach to our partners' and affiliates' customer bases. we have developed and implemented a global partner sales organization that targets new, as well as existing, partners to enhance our partner distribution channels. these channels include: retailers, telecom service providers, hardware oems, and employee benefit providers. physical retail and oem partners represent a small portion of our distribution, which minimizes the impacts of supply chain disruptions. competition we operate in a highly competitive and rapidly evolving business environment. we believe that the competitive factors in our market include access to a breadth of identity and consumer transaction data, broad and effective service offerings, brand recognition, technology, effective and cost-efficient customer acquisition, having a large customer base and strong retention rate, customer satisfaction, price, convenience of purchase, ease of use, frequency of upgrades and updates, and quality and reliable customer service. our competitors vary by offering, geography, and channel. our principal competitors are set forth below: device security. our principal competitors in this market are avast, kaspersky, mcafee, microsoft, sophos, and trend micro. identity protection. our principal competitors in this market are credit bureaus equifax, experian, and transunion, as well as certain credit monitoring and identity theft protection solutions from others such as allstate, credit karma, and mcafee. online privacy. our principal competitors in this market are avast, kape, expressvpn, mcafee, nordvpn, and pango. home and family. our principal competitors in this market are avast, life360, and mcafee. other competitors. in addition to competition from large consumer security companies such as avast and mcafee, we also face competition from smaller companies that may develop competing products. we believe we compete favorably with our competitors on the strength of our technology, people, product offerings and integration across all the cyber safety pillars. however, some of our competitors have substantially greater financial, technical, marketing, distribution, and other resources than we possess that afford them competitive advantages. as a result, they may be able to devote greater resources to develop, promote and sell their offerings; deliver competitive offerings at lower prices or for free; and introduce new solutions and respond to market developments and customer requirements more quickly than we can. for more information on the risks associated with our competitors, please see risk factors in item 1a. research and development as cyber threats evolve, we are focused on delivering a portfolio that protects each element of our customers' digital lives. to do this, we embrace innovation and have developed a global research and development strategy across our cyber safety platform. our engineering and product management teams are focused on delivering new versions of existing offerings, as well as developing entirely new offerings to drive the company's global leadership in cyber safety. we have a technology research organization focused on applied research projects, with the goal of rapidly creating new products to address consumer trends and grow the business, including defending consumer digital privacy. also, nortonlifelock's threat response and security technology organization is a global organization made up of leading threat and security researchers supported by advanced systems to innovate security technology and threat intelligence as the consumer ally for cyber safety, protecting our customers against known and emerging threats. nortonlifelock has a long history of innovation and we plan to invest in research and development to drive our long-term success. intellectual property we are a leader amongst cyber safety solutions for consumers in pursuing patents and currently have a portfolio of over 1,000 u.s. and international patents issued with many pending. we protect our intellectual property rights and investments in a variety of ways to safeguard our technologies and our long-term success. we work actively in the u.s. and internationally to ensure the enforcement of copyright, trademark, trade secret and other protections that apply to our software products and services. the term of the patents we hold is, on average, twelve years. from time to time, we enter into cross-license agreements with other technology companies covering broad groups of patents; we have an additional portfolio of over 2,500 u.s. and international patents cross-licensed to us as part of our arrangement with broadcom as a result of the asset sale of our former enterprise security business. circumstances outside our control could pose a threat to our intellectual property rights. effective intellectual property protection may not be available, and the efforts we have taken to protect our proprietary rights may not be sufficient or effective. any significant impairment of our intellectual property rights could harm our business or our ability to compete. in addition, protecting our intellectual property rights is costly and time consuming. any unauthorized disclosure or use of our intellectual property could make it more expensive to do business and harm our operating results. companies in the technology industry may own a large number of patents, copyrights, and trademarks and may frequently request license agreements, threaten litigation, or file suit against us based on allegations of infringement or other violations of 6 table of contents intellectual property rights. from time to time, we face, and we expect to face in the future, allegations that we have infringed the trademarks, copyrights, patents, and other intellectual property rights of third parties, including our competitors. as we face increasing competition and as our business grows, we may face more claims of infringement. for more information on the risks associated with our intellectual property, please see risk factors in item 1a. third-party service providers we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities. in addition, our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (engine-related services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to broadcom as part of the broadcom sale. the technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology. broadcom has committed to provide these engine-related services under a transition services agreement, substantially to the same extent and in substantially the same manner, as has been historically provided. for information on the risks associated with our dependence on such third-party service providers, please see risk factors in item 1a. governmental regulation we collect, use, store or disclose an increasingly high volume, variety, and velocity of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly, in relation to our identity and information protection offerings, which rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. the personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security. for information on the risks associated with complying with privacy and data security laws, please see risk factors in item 1a. seasonality as is typical for many consumer technology companies, our business is subject to seasonality. our third and fourth quarters are seasonally higher due to the holidays in our third quarter, and follow-on holiday purchases and the u.s. tax filing season in our fourth quarter. corporate responsibility our annual corporate responsibility report can be found via the nortonlifelock website at https://www.nortonlifelock.com/about/corporate-responsibility. the information contained, or referred to, on our website, including our corporate responsibility report, is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. employees as of april 3, 2020, we employed more than 3,600 people worldwide. none of our employees are represented by a labor union or covered by a collective bargaining agreement. we consider our relationship with employees to be good, and are focused on effective attraction, development, and retention of, and compensation and benefits to, human resource talent, including workforce and management development, diversity and inclusion initiatives, succession planning, and corporate culture and leadership quality, morale and development, which are vital to the success of our innovation-driven growth strategy. the compensation and leadership development committee of our board of directors oversees workforce and senior management development and our board of directors monitors the culture of the company and leadership quality, morale and development. available information our internet home page is located at https://www.nortonlifelock.com . we make available free of charge our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with the securities and exchange commission (sec) on our investor relations website located at https://investor.nortonlifelock.com/about/investors/default.aspx/ . the information contained, or referred to, on our website is not part of this annual report unless expressly noted. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding our filings at http://www.sec.gov . item 1a. risk factors risks related to our business strategy and industry the covid-19 pandemic has affected how we are operating our business, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and overall financial performance remains uncertain. the covid-19 pandemic is having widespread, rapidly evolving, and unpredictable impacts on global society, economies, financial markets, and business practices. federal and state governments have implemented measures to contain the virus, including social distancing, travel restrictions, border closures, limitations on public gatherings, work from home, and closure of non-essential businesses. to protect the health and well-being of our employees, partners and third-party service providers, we have implemented a near company-wide work-from-home requirement for most employees until further notice, made substantial modifications to employee travel policies, and cancelled or shifted our conferences and other marketing events to virtual-only for the foreseeable future. while we continue to monitor the situation and may adjust our current policies as more information and public health guidance become available, such precautionary measures could negatively affect our customer success efforts, sales and marketing efforts, or create operational or other challenges, such as a reduction in employee productivity because of the work from home requirement, any of which could harm our business and results of operations. further, if the covid-19 7 table of contents pandemic has a substantial impact on our employees, partners or third-party service providers' health, attendance or productivity, our results of operations and overall financial performance may be adversely impacted. additionally, if employees, partners or third-party services providers return to work during the covid-19 pandemic, the risk of inadvertent transmission of covid -19 through human contact could still occur and result in litigation . beginning in march 2020, the u.s. and global economies have reacted negatively in response to worldwide concerns due to the economic impacts of the covid-19 pandemic. although we have not yet experienced a material increase in customers cancellations or a material reduction in our retention rate in 2020, we may experience such an increase or reduction in the future, especially in the event of a prolonged economic down turn as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. a prolonged economic downturn could result adversely affect demand for our offerings, retention rates and harm our business and results of operations, particularly in light of the fact that our solutions are discretionary purchases and thus may be more susceptible to macroeconomic pressures , as well impact the value of our common stock, ability to refinance our debt, and our access to capital. the duration and extent of the impact from the covid-19 pandemic depends on future developments that cannot be accurately forecasted at this time, such as the severity and transmission rate of the disease, the extent and effectiveness of containment actions and the impact of these and other factors on our employees, customers, partners and third-party service providers. if we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of such events effectively and if the macroeconomic conditions of the general economy or the industries in which we operate do not improve, or deteriorate further, our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows could be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions, our competitive position may weaken, and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to evolving threats to consumers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes, by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive, and as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation. following the broadcom sale (as defined below), our resources for research and development have decreased, which could put us at a competitive disadvantage. nevertheless, we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, which include, for example, decreasing our reliance on third parties for our engine-related services. if we are unable to anticipate or react to competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our revenues that could adversely affect our business and operating results. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. additionally, we must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends and competitive developments. customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. our failure to develop new solutions and improve our existing solutions to satisfy customer preferences and effectively compete with other market offerings in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to retain our customers and to create or increase demand for our solutions, which may adversely impact our operating results. the development and introduction of new solutions involve a significant commitment of time and resources and are subject to a number of risks and challenges including but not limited to: lengthy development cycles; evolving industry and regulatory standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers; rapidly changing customer preferences; evolving platforms, operating systems, and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges; entering into new or unproven markets; and executing new product and service strategies. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new or improved solutions are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our solutions that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience frequent technological developments, changes in industry and regulatory standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges, or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our revenues that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored by our customers. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our 8 table of contents competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners, such as computer hardware original equipment manufacturers (oems) and internet service providers (isps) and operating systems. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors' solutions than our own. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors' solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or in some cases, is offered free of charge. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for full featured solutions like ours. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our revenues and operating results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our solutions, reduced profitability, and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the market in which we compete. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face, in addition to general and economic business conditions, can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain solutions or provide offerings, we may need to lower prices in order to compete successfully similarly, if there is pressure by competitors to raise prices, our ability to acquire new customers and retain existing customers may be diminished. any such changes may reduce revenue and margins and could adversely affect our financial results. additionally, our business may be affected by changes in the macroeconomic environment. our solutions are discretionary purchases, and customers may reduce or eliminate their discretionary spending on our solutions during a difficult macroeconomic environment. although we have not yet experienced a material increase in customers cancellations or a material reduction in our retention rate in 2020, we may experience such an increase or reduction in the future, especially in the event of a prolonged economic down turn or a worsening of current conditions as a result of the covid-19 pandemic. in addition, during an economic downturn, consumers may experience a decline in their credit or disposable income, which may result in less demand for our solutions. as a result, we may have to lower our prices or make other changes to our pricing model to address these dynamics, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial results. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including, but not limited to, distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers, and oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. these channels involve a number of risks, including: our resellers, distributors and oems are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers; our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause and our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; our resellers, distributors and oems may encounter issues or have violations of applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions; our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; any consolidation of electronics retailers can increase their negotiating power with respect to software providers such as us and any decline in the number of physical retailers could decrease the channels of distribution for us; the continued consolidation of online sales through a small number of larger channels has been increasing, which could reduce the channels available for online distribution of our solutions; and sales through our partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of sales. 9 table of contents if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us, and we may have reduced revenues or collections that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future and adversely affect our operating results. our revenue and operating results depend significantly on our ability to retain our existing customers, and add new customers, and any decline in our retention rates or failure to add new customers will harm our future revenue and operating results. our revenue and operating results depend significantly on our ability to retain our existing customers and add new customers. we sell our solutions to our customers on a monthly or annual subscription basis. customers may cancel their membership with us at any time without penalty. we therefore may be unable to retain our existing customers on the same or on more profitable terms, if at all. in addition, we may not be able to predict or anticipate accurately future trends in customer retention or effectively respond to such trends. our customer retention rates may decline or fluctuate due to a variety of factors, including the following: our customers' levels of satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our solutions; the quality, breadth, and prices of our solutions; our general reputation and events impacting that reputation; the services and related pricing offered by our competitors; disruption by new services or changes in law or regulations that impact the need for efficacy of our products and services; our customer service and responsiveness to any customer complaints; customer dissatisfaction if they do not receive the full benefit of our services due to their failure to provide all relevant data; customer dissatisfaction with the methods or extent of our remediation services; our guarantee may not meet our customers' expectations; and changes in our target customers' spending levels as a result of general economic conditions or other factors. if we do not retain our existing customers and add new customers, our revenue may grow more slowly than expected or decline, and our operating results and gross margins will be harmed. in addition, our business and operating results may be harmed if we are unable to increase our retention rates. we also must continually add new customers both to replace customers who cancel or elect not to renew their agreements with us and to grow our business beyond our current customer base. if we are unable to attract new customers in numbers greater than the percentage of customers who cancel or elect not to renew their agreements with us, our customer base will decrease, and our business, operating results, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire or divest businesses or assets. for example, we recently completed the sale of certain of our enterprise security assets to broadcom inc. (the broadcom sale . these activities can involve a number of risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired and the winding down of divested business operations, workforce, products, it systems, and technologies; diversion of management time and attention; loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; assumption of liabilities of the acquired and divested business or assets, including pending or future litigation, investigations or claims related to the acquired business or assets; the addition of acquisition-related debt; increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements; dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense. we have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire. the success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies, or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and 10 table of contents effective manner. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations. further, we may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology, and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above. in addition, we have, and may in the future, divest businesses, product lines, or assets, with the broadcom sale being a recent example. such initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management's time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs, and accounting charges for asset impairments. please see risks related to the broadcom sale, below, for additional information regarding our divestiture risks. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our acquired or divested businesses, product lines or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions. risks related to the broadcom sale we may not achieve the intended benefits of the broadcom sale. we may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the broadcom sale. the resource constraints that resulted from the completion of the transaction, included the loss of employees, and could have a continuing impact on the execution of our business strategy and our overall operating results. further, our remaining employees may become concerned about the future of our remaining operations and lose focus or seek other employment. we are dependent upon broadcom for certain engineering and threat response services, which are critical to our products and business . we could lose our access to these or other data sources, including threat intelligence, which could cause us competitive harm and have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. our endpoint security solution has historically relied upon certain threat analytics software engines and other software (the engine-related services) that have been developed and provided by engineering teams that have transferred to broadcom as part of the broadcom sale. the technology, including source code, at issue is shared, and pursuant to the terms of the broadcom sale, we retain rights to use, modify, enhance and create derivative works from such technology. broadcom has committed to provide these engine-related services under a transition services agreement, substantially to the same extent and in substantially the same manner, as has been historically provided. as a result, we are dependent on broadcom for services and technology that are critical to our business, and if broadcom fails to deliver these engine-related services it would result in significant business disruption, and our business and operating results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected. furthermore, we cannot provide assurance that we will be able to obtain data from alternative or additional sources if our current sources become unavailable, and if we are able to obtain alternative sources, we could be unable to integrate or deploy them in time, which could cause us competitive harm and have a material adverse effect on our business. additionally, in connection with the broadcom sale, we lost many industry-specific engineers and other capabilities, including certain threat intelligence data which were historically provided by our former enterprise security business, the lack of which could have a negative impact on our business and products. any cost reduction initiatives that we undertake may not deliver the results we expect, and these actions may adversely affect our business. in november 2019, our board of directors approved a restructuring plan (the november 2019 plan) in connection with the strategic decision to divest our enterprise security business. actions under this plan include the reduction of our workforce by approximately 3,100 employees, as well as asset write-offs, contract terminations, facilities closures, and the sale of underutilized facilities. we estimate that we will incur total costs of $550 million in connection with the november 2019 plan, excluding stock-based compensation expense, of which approximately $200 million are expected to consist of cash expenditures for severance and termination benefits and $110 million of cash expenditures for contract terminations. non-cash costs are estimated to be up to $240 million related to asset write-offs and other restructuring costs. these actions are expected to be completed by september 2020. this initiative could result in disruptions to our operations. any cost-cutting measures could also negatively impact our business by delaying the introduction of new products or technologies, interrupting service of additional products, or impacting employee retention. in addition, we cannot assure you that the cost reduction and streamlining initiatives will be as successful in reducing our overall expenses as we expect or that additional costs will not offset any such reductions or streamlining of our operations. if our operating costs are higher than we expect, if the expected proceeds from the sale of under-utilized assets do not meet expectations, or if we do not maintain adequate control of our costs and expenses, our results of operations will suffer. if we are unsuccessful at executing the transition of the enterprise security business assets from the broadcom sale, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. for the last several years, we have experienced transitions in our business with the integration of two major acquisitions, the completion of several smaller acquisitions, and the broadcom sale, which comprised an operating segment. these transitions have involved significant turnover in executive management and other key personnel and changes in our strategic direction, as well as resulted in the relocation of our headquarters to tempe, arizona. transitions of this type can be disruptive, result in the 11 table of contents loss of focus and employee morale and make the execution of business strategies more difficult. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to such transitions and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuance of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry structure and market conditions and in connection with the broadcom sale, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting certain businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances our vendor agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. risks related to our operations if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical (including cyber security experts), sales, marketing, e-commerce, finance, and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are at will employees and we generally do not have employment or non-compete agreements with our employees, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, and we may face new and unexpected difficulties in attracting, retaining, and motivating employees in connection with the relocation of our headquarters to tempe, arizona. in connection with the broadcom sale, we experienced employee attrition and related difficulties and these difficulties and loss of certain expertise and capabilities may continue or increase. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we must provide competitive pay packages, including cash and equity-based compensation. additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. if we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business, results of operations and future growth prospects could suffer. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans. as a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company and the frequency and number of such departures has widely varied and have resulted in significant changes to our executive leadership team. although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities, and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption, or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures, pandemics, such as the recent covid-19 pandemic and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster, an act of terrorism, a pandemic, such as the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, and similar events could result in a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems, which in turn, could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services, which could negatively impact our sales and operating results. furthermore, our business administration, human resources, compliance efforts, and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication, and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event, such as the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, could 12 table of contents cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, and deficiencies may arise in our internal control over financial reporting, which may impact our ability to certify our financial results, all of which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. if these systems or their functionality do not operate as we expect them to, we may be required to expend significant resources to make corrections or find alternative sources for performing these functions. in light of the ongoing covid-19 pandemic, we have implemented a near company-wide work-from-home requirement for most employees until further notice. while we have not experienced any material disruptions to date, there can be no assurance that our technological systems or infrastructure is or will be equipped to facilitate effective remote working arrangements and effectively operate in full compliance with all laws and regulations for our employees in the short or long term. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s., and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales and customer support. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions, and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors; regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s.; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability, and inflationary conditions could make our solutions more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. is denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we have in the past and expect in the future to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the u.s. continue to increase and foreign currency rates continue to experience increased volatility due to the covid-19 pandemics. risks related to our solutions our solutions, systems, and website and the data on these sources may be subject to intentional disruption that could materially harm to our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks, and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities, including malicious hackers, state-sponsored organizations, and insider threats including actions by employees and third-party service providers, may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and websites and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of the global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. this risk may be increased during the current covid-19 pandemic as more individuals are work from home and utilize home networks for the transmission of sensitive information. such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication, and if successful could expose us and the affected parties, to risk of loss or misuse of proprietary or confidential information or disruptions of our business operations. while we engage in a number of measures aimed to protect against security breaches and to minimize problems if a data breach were to occur, our information technology systems and infrastructure may be vulnerable to damage, compromise, 13 table of contents disruption, and shutdown due to attacks or breaches by hackers or due to other circumstances, such as error or malfeasance by employees or third party service providers or technology malfunction. the occurrence of any of these events, as well as a failure to promptly remedy these events should they occur, could compromise our systems, and the information stored in our systems could be accessed, publicly disclosed, lost, stolen, or damaged. any such circumstance could adversely affect our ability to attract and maintain customers as well as strategic partners, cause us to suffer negative publicity, and subject us to legal claims and liabilities or regulatory penalties. in addition, unauthorized parties might alter information in our databases, which would adversely affect both the reliability of that information and our ability to market and perform our services. techniques used to obtain unauthorized access or to sabotage systems change frequently, are constantly evolving and generally are difficult to recognize and react to effectively. we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventive or reactive measures. several recent, highly publicized data security breaches at other companies have heightened consumer awareness of this issue and may embolden individuals or groups to target our systems or those of our strategic partners or enterprise customers. our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed and negatively impact our brand recognition and reputation . because we offer very complex solutions, errors, defects, disruptions, or other performance problems with our solutions may and have occurred. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages, and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our websites simultaneously, fraud, or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our solutions, including the operati on of the global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. our operations are d ependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of solutions to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. further, our business would be harmed if any of the events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our solutions are unreliable. our brand recognition and reputation are critical aspects of our business to retaining existing customers and attracting new customers. furthermore, negative publicity, whether or not justified, relating to events or activities attributed to us, our employees, our strategic partners, our affiliates, or others associated with any of these parties, may tarnish our reputation and reduce the value of our brands. damage to our reputation and loss of brand equity may reduce demand for our solutions and have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. moreover, any attempts to rebuild our reputation and restore the value of our brands may be costly and time consuming, and such efforts may not ultimately be successful. we collect, use, disclose, store, or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business. we collect, use, process, store, transmit or disclose (collectively, process) an increasingly large amount of confidential information, including personally identifiable information, credit card information and other critical data from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and information protection offerings. the personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local, and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. for example, the european union general data protection regulation imposes more stringent data protection requirements and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues. data protection legislation is also becoming increasingly common in the u.s. at both the federal and state level. for example, the california consumer privacy act of 2018 (the ccpa), came into effect on january 1, 2020. the ccpa requires companies that process information on california residents to make new disclosures to consumers about their data collection, use, and sharing practices, allows consumers to opt out of certain data sharing with third parties, and provides a new cause of action for data breaches. additionally, the federal trade commission (the ftc) and many state attorneys general are interpreting federal and state consumer protection laws to impose standards for the online collection, use, dissemination, and security of data. the burdens imposed by the ccpa and other similar laws that may be enacted at the federal and state level may require us to modify our data processing practices and policies and to incur substantial expenditures in order to comply. global privacy and data protection legislation, enforcement, and policy activity are rapidly expanding and evolving, and may be inconsistent from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. we may be or become subject to data localization laws mandating that data collected in a foreign country be processed and stored only within that country. if any country in which we have customers were to adopt a data localization law, we could be required to expand our data storage facilities there or build new ones in order to comply. the expenditure this would require, as well as costs of compliance generally, could harm our financial condition. 14 table of contents additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk. in addition, o ur customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. this could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. in addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers' records. legal and compliance risks matters relating to or arising from our completed audit committee investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters, and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. as previously disclosed in our public filings, the audit committee completed its internal investigation in september 2018. in connection with the audit committee investigation, we voluntarily self-reported to the sec. the sec commenced a formal investigation, and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. the outcome of such an investigation is difficult to predict. if the sec commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order, and other equitable remedies. we can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation. we have incurred, and will continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal and other professional services in connection with the ongoing sec investigation, which may continue to adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors, and officers. the outcome of the securities class actions and other litigation and regulatory proceedings or government enforcement actions is difficult to predict, and the cost to defend, settle, or otherwise resolve these matters may be significant. plaintiffs or regulatory agencies or authorities in these matters may seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts or seek to impose sanctions, including significant monetary penalties. the monetary and other impact of these litigations, proceedings, or actions may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. further, an unfavorable resolution of litigations, proceedings or actions could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, and results of operations and cash flows. any future investigations or additional lawsuits may also adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. our solutions are highly regulated, which could impede our ability to market and provide our solutions or adversely affect our business, financial position, and results of operations. our solutions are subject to a high degree of regulation, including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, such as the fair credit reporting act, the gramm-leach-bliley act, the federal trade commission act (ftc act), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the ftc act. lifelock has previously entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the ftc and the attorney generals of 35 states as well as a settlement with the ftc relating to allegations that certain of lifelock's advertising, marketing and security practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the ftc act, which impose additional restrictions on our business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of our solutions. any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business. additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the consumer financial protection bureau which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. much of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our consumer agreements do not require a signature and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. 15 table of contents from time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions, and governmental claims, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such litigation may be costly and divert management's attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages, or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our solutions, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend, and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in delivery delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. risks related to our financial results fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of our outstanding securities in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected. volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our solutions may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including but not limited to: fluctuations in demand for our solutions; disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, such as the covid-19 pandemic, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters; entry of new competition into our markets; our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins and revenues; competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our solutions; 16 table of contents our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions; the amount and timing of commencement and termination of major marketing campaigns; the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware, and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches); loss of customers or strategic partners; changes in the mix or type of solutions and subscriptions sold and changes in consumer retention rates; the rate of adoption of new technologies and new releases of operating systems, and new business processes; consumer confidence and spending changes, which could be impacted by market changes and general economic conditions, among other reasons; the impact of litigation, regulatory inquiries, or investigations; the impact of acquisitions and divestitures and our ability to achieve expected synergies or attendant cost savings; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; movements in interest rates; changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations; and changes in consumer protection laws and regulations. any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly. changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss), cash flows and working capital. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes to the u.s. federal income tax laws, including impacts of the tax cuts and jobs act (h.r.1) (the 2017 tax act) arising from future interpretations of the 2017 tax act; changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the organisation for economic co-operation and development's base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies such as digital services taxation, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; the tax effects of significant infrequently occurring events that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place; taxes arising in connection with the broadcom sale; taxes arising in connection to changes in our workforce, corporate entity structure or operations as they relate to tax incentives and tax rates. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. risks related to our liquidity and indebtedness we cannot predict our future capital needs, and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition. adverse economic conditions or a change in our business performance may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions or divestitures), or financing activities. any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. if additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our solutions through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our solutions offerings, revenues, results of operations, and financial condition. 17 table of contents failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs, and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, and access to capital markets. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition. as of april 3, 2020, we had an aggregate of $4.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature in calendar years 2020 through 2025, including approximately $1.5 billion in aggregate principal amount of existing convertible notes, $2.3 billion of senior notes and $0.5 billion of outstanding term loans under our senior secured credit facility, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future and/or enter into new financing arrangements. in addition, as of april 3, 2020, we had $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. our ability to meet expenses, to remain in compliance with the covenants under our debt instruments, and to pay interest and repay principal for our substantial level of indebtedness depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments, and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic, and other factors. we are not able to control many of these factors. accordingly, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including the notes, and meet our other obligations. our level of indebtedness could have other important consequences, including the following: we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility, our existing senior notes, and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes, and potential acquisitions; we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, or general corporate purposes; we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates; our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; we may be more vulnerable to an economic downturn and adverse developments in our business; we may be unable to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of our debt and/or our common stock, adversely affect our access to debt markets, and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt; and conversion of our convertible notes could result in significant dilution of our common stock, which could result in significant dilution to our existing stockholders and cause the market price of our common stock to decline. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment, or otherwise. in general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. changes in the method of determining libor, or the replacement of libor with an alternative reference rate, may adversely affect interest rates on our current or future indebtedness and may otherwise adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. certain of our indebtedness is made at variable interest rates that use the london interbank offered rate, or libor (or metrics derived from or related to libor), as a benchmark for establishing the interest rate. in 2017, the united kingdom's financial conduct authority announced that it intends to stop persuading or compelling banks to submit libor rates after 2021. if libor ceases to exist, we may need to renegotiate our debt arrangements that extend beyond 2021 that utilize libor as a factor in determining the interest rate, which may negatively impact the terms of such indebtedness. in addition, the overall financial markets may be disrupted as a result of the phase out or replacement of libor. disruption in the financial markets could have an adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations, and liquidity. 18 table of contents our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. the existing credit agreements contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: incur additional debt; create liens on certain assets to secure debt; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. all of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions, or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 32 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk our short-term investments and cash equivalents primarily consist of corporate bonds and certificate of deposits, respectively. a change in interest could have an adverse impact on their market value. as of april 3, 2020 , the carrying value and fair value of our short-term investments and cash equivalents was $434 million . a hypothetical change in the yield curve of 100 basis points would not result in a significant reduction in fair value. as of april 3, 2020 , we had $3.8 billion in aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes and convertible debt outstanding, with a carrying amount and a fair value of $3.6 billion , based on level 2 inputs. since these notes bear interest at fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change. 32 table of contents as of april 3, 2020 , we also had $500 million outstanding debt with variable interest rates based on the london interbank offered rate (libor). a reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 100 basis points in libor would not result in a significant increase in interest expense on an annualized basis. in addition, we have a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility that if drawn bears interest at a variable rate based on libor and would be subject to the same risks associated with adverse changes in libor. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in numerous currencies through our worldwide operations, and our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues, or incur costs in currencies other than the entity's functional currency, primarily in euro, japanese yen, british pound, and indian rupee. in addition, we charge our international subsidiaries for their use of intellectual property and technology and for certain corporate services we provide. our cash flow, results of operations and certain of our intercompany balances that are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations may differ materially from expectations, and we may record significant gains or losses due to foreign currency fluctuations and related hedging activities. as a result, we are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses which impacts our operating results. we have a foreign exchange exposure management program designed to identify material foreign currency exposures, manage these exposures, and reduce the potential effects of currency fluctuations on our results of operations through which we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts on our assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of our subsidiaries with up to twelve months in duration. we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. the gains and losses on these foreign exchange contracts are recorded in interest and other, net in our statement of operations. as of april 3, 2020 and march 29, 2019 , we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $419 million and $ 1.1 billion , respectively, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposure, with an insignificant fair value. a hypothetical ten percent depreciation of foreign currency would result in a reduction in fair value of our forward contracts of $30 million and $84 million for fiscal 2020 and fiscal 2019, respectively. this analysis disregards the possibilities that the rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area. additional information with respect to our derivative instruments is included in note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in this annual report on form 10-k. 33 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. an adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, financial institution difficulties may make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. 12 table of contents fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products declines because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as netbooks entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions incorporating acquired products and technologies addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new or acquired products developing or expanding efficient sales channels obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems in addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted. in connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount of data processed or stored. if enterprises continue to migrate towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license revenues unless we are able to successfully change our enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take into account the impact of these new solutions. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 13 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop in revenue that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, we could experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our financial results. our traditional competitors include independent software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if they more actively promote our competitors products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. we face growing competition from network equipment and computer hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for free. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that are inferior to our products. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results. another growing industry trend is the saas business model, where software vendors develop and host their applications for use by customers over the internet. this allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software without the associated complexity or high initial set-up and operational costs. advances in the saas business model could enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the success of our traditional software licensing models. we are offering our own saas offerings, including those related to our fiscal 2009 acquisition of message labs, and we continue to incorporate these offerings into our licensing model. however, we may not be able to successfully incorporate our saas offerings into our current licensing models. our inability to successfully develop and market new and existing saas product offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. 14 table of contents if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales. a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with this sales channel include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive, including regular updates to cover new and revised products indirect sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers oem sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems shipped our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain partners sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no associated revenues the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales in many cases we must incur up-front costs to access the oem channel, particularly in the consumer market, and we may not recoup those up-front costs if customers do not ultimately activate and purchase our products 15 table of contents if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee base, product lines, and technology diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense, such as the $7.4 billion goodwill write-down we recorded during fiscal 2009 integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. we have not historically maintained substantial levels of indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. in june 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. as a result of the sale of the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we maintained prior to that sale. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. as of april 2, 2010, we had no borrowings under our credit facility. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition 16 table of contents to the amount available under our credit facility. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. of our outstanding convertible notes, $1.1 billion matures and is repayable in june 2011 and the balance is due in june 2013. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or may not be adequately enforced requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s. fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability such as higher interest rates in the u.s. and inflation that could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption technologies costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the united states continue to increase. the level of corporate tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. 17 table of contents our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, may have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other critical personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. from time to time, key personnel leave our company. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. 18 table of contents from time to time we are a party to class action lawsuits, which often require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the business software alliance ( bsa ), or the software information industry association ( siia ), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license ( gpl ), gnu lesser general public license ( lgpl ), the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache 19 table of contents license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. our software products and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information and/or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product rights impairment of goodwill stock-based compensation expense restructuring charges impairment of long-lived assets loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale 20 table of contents for example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a significant net loss for the year. goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. our assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of that reporting unit. our determination of fair value relies on management assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. if management estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment charge. in addition, we evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that the value of these assets might be impaired. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an impairment charge against the value of these assets. the foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred in connection with or as a result of other business acquisitions. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing accounting charges. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction in which we are subject to taxes has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could adversely affect our operations and operating results. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. 21 table of contents factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products entry of new competition into our markets competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses) our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter enterprise customers tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers movement in interest rates the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide acts of war or terrorism intentional disruptions by third parties health or similar issues, such as a pandemic any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our competitors operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors 22 table of contents announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers gain or loss of a significant customer inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and the potential losses arising from changes in interest rates. our investment objective is to achieve the maximum return compatible with capital preservation and our liquidity requirements. our strategy is to invest our cash in a manner that preserves capital, maintains sufficient liquidity to meet our cash requirements, maximizes yields consistent with approved credit risk, and limits inappropriate concentrations of investment by sector, credit, or issuer. we classify our cash equivalents and short-term investments in accordance with the authoritative guidance on investments. we consider investments in instruments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. we classify our short-term investments as available-for-sale. short-term investments consist of marketable debt or equity securities with original maturities in excess of 90 days. our cash equivalents and short-term investment portfolios consist primarily of money market funds, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and u.s. government and government-sponsored debt securities. our short-term investments do not include equity investments in privately held companies. our short-term investments are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. the amortization of premiums and discounts on the investments, realized gains and losses, and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. we use the specific identification method to determine cost in calculating realized gains and losses upon sale of short-term investments. 50 table of contents the following table presents the fair value and hypothetical changes in fair values on short-term investments sensitive to changes in interest rates ( in millions ): value of securities value of securities given an given an interest interest rate increase of rate decrease of x x basis points (bps) fair value basis points (bps) 150 bps 100 bps 50 bps as of (25 bps) (75 bps) april 2, 2010 $ 10 $ 10 $ 10 $ 10 $ 10 * april 3, 2009 $ 680 $ 680 $ 680 $ 680 $ 681 $ 681 * amount not meaningful the modeling technique used above measures the change in fair market value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus 150 bps, plus 100 bps, plus 50 bps, minus 25 bps, and minus 75 bps. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 44 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates will result in foreign exchange gains and losses on these foreign currency assets and liabilities and are included in other income, net. our objective in managing foreign exchange activity is to preserve stockholder value by minimizing the risk of foreign currency exchange rate changes. our strategy is to primarily utilize forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. under our program, gains and losses in our foreign currency exposures are offset by losses and gains on our forward contracts. our forward contracts generally have terms of one to six months. at the end of the reporting period, open contracts are marked-to-market with unrealized gains and losses included in other income, net. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis on our foreign forward exchange contract portfolio using a statistical model to estimate the potential gain or loss in fair value that could arise from hypothetical appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency ( in millions ): value of contracts value of contracts given x% given x% appreciation of depreciation of foreign foreign currency notional currency foreign forward exchange contracts 10% 5% amount (5)% (10)% purchased, april 2, 2010 $ 217 $ 209 $ 199 $ 189 $ 177 sold, april 2, 2010 $ 236 $ 248 $ 260 $ 274 $ 289 purchased, april 3, 2009 $ 264 $ 252 $ 240 $ 228 $ 216 sold, april 3, 2009 $ 320 $ 337 $ 355 $ 373 $ 391 equity price risk in june 2006, we issued $1.1 billion principal amount of 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2011 and $1.0 billion of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2013. holders may convert their senior notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. upon conversion, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of symantec common stock, up to the principal amount of the note. amounts in excess of the principal amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at our option. concurrent with the issuance of the senior notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the senior notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. for business and strategic purposes, we also hold equity interests in several privately held companies, many of which can be considered to be in the start-up or development stages. these investments are inherently risky and we could lose a substantial part or our entire investment in these companies. these investments are recorded at cost and 51 table of contents classified as other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as of april 2, 2010, these investments had an aggregate carrying value of $22 million.risk factors 12 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. 12 table of contents fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products declines, our revenues and gross margin would likely be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices. entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new or acquired products developing or expanding efficient sales channels obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop in revenue that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information 13 table of contents is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, we could experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our financial results. our traditional competitors include independent software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is bundled for free. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results. another growing industry trend is the saas business model, where software vendors develop and host their applications for use by customers over the internet or through the cloud. this allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software without the associated complexity or high initial set-up and operational costs. advances in the saas business model could enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the success of our traditional software licensing models. our inability to successfully develop and market new and existing saas offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such as intel corporation recently completed acquisition of mfe, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. defects or disruptions in our saas offerings could reduce demand for our services and subject us to substantial liability. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. 14 table of contents if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales. a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive, including regular updates to cover new and revised products indirect sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers oem sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the 15 table of contents past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies diversion of management time and attention loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. any damage to, or failure of, any element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. as we continue to offer more of our software products in a saas-based delivery model, all of these risks could be exacerbated. our saas offerings also involve the storage and transmission of customers proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss of this information, which could lead to litigation and possible liability. despite our precautions to protect against such breaches, our security measures could be breached at any time and could result in unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our customers data. a security breach could also result in a loss of confidence in the security of our saas offerings, which could negatively impact our business. 16 table of contents our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of our 0.75% convertible senior notes ( 0.75% notes ) and 1.00% convertible senior notes ( 1.00% notes ), collectively referred to as the convertible senior notes in june 2006, and 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75% notes ) and 4.20% senior notes ( 4.20% notes ), collectively referred to as the senior notes in september 2010, we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $2.7 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2011, 2013, 2015 and 2020. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. of our outstanding convertible senior notes, $600 million matures and is repayable in june 2011 and $1.0 billion is due in june 2013. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. an adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations 17 table of contents central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s. fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability such as higher interest rates in the u.s. and inflationary conditions that could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the united states continue to increase. the level of corporate tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our 18 table of contents product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other critical personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. from time to time, key personnel leave our company. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. from time to time we are a party to class action lawsuits, which often require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this 19 table of contents liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the business software alliance ( bsa ), or the software information industry association ( siia ), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license ( gpl ), gnu lesser general public license ( lgpl ), the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. our software products and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information and/or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. our 20 table of contents business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product rights impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets stock-based compensation expense restructuring charges loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale for example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a significant net loss for the year. goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. our assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of that reporting unit. our determination of fair value relies on management assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. if management estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment charge. in addition, we evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that the value of these assets might be impaired. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an impairment charge against the value of these assets. the foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred in connection with or as a result of other business acquisitions. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing accounting charges. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates 21 table of contents changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could adversely affect our operations and operating results. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products entry of new competition into our markets competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses) our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter enterprise customers tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers movement in interest rates the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively 22 table of contents budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide acts of war or terrorism intentional disruptions by third parties health or similar issues, such as a pandemic any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our competitors operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers gain or loss of a significant customer inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and the potential losses arising from changes in interest rates. our investment objective is to achieve the maximum return compatible with capital preservation and our liquidity requirements. our strategy is to invest our cash in a manner that preserves capital, maintains sufficient liquidity to meet our cash requirements, maximizes yields consistent with approved credit risk, and limits inappropriate concentrations of investment by sector, credit, or issuer. we classify our cash equivalents and short-term investments in accordance with the authoritative guidance on investments. we consider investments in instruments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. we classify our short-term investments as available-for-sale. short-term investments consist of marketable debt or equity securities with original maturities in excess of 90 days. our cash equivalents and short-term investment portfolios consist primarily of money market funds, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and u.s. government and government-sponsored debt securities. our short-term investments do not include equity investments in privately held companies. our short-term investments are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. the amortization of premiums and discounts on the investments, realized gains and losses, and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. we use the specific identification method to determine cost in calculating realized gains and losses upon the sale of short-term investments. 48 table of contents the following table presents the fair value and hypothetical changes in fair values on short-term investments sensitive to changes in interest rates: value of securities value of securities given an given an interest interest rate increase of rate decrease of x x basis points (bps) fair value basis points (bps) 150 bps 100 bps 50 bps as of (25 bps) (75 bps) (in millions) april 1, 2011 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 $ 5 * april 2, 2010 $ 10 $ 10 $ 10 $ 10 $ 10 * * amount not applicable the modeling technique used above measures the change in fair market value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus 150 bps, plus 100 bps, plus 50 bps, and minus 25 bps. as of april 1, 2011, we had $1.1 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $1.1 billion and a fair value of $1.05 billion, which fair value is based on market prices. as of april 1, 2011, a hypothetical 50 bps increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt by a decrease of approximately $34 million and an increase of approximately $35 million, respectively. however, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 43 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates will result in foreign exchange gains and losses on these foreign currency assets and liabilities and are included in other income, net. our objective in managing foreign exchange activity is to preserve stockholder value by minimizing the risk of foreign currency exchange rate changes. our strategy is to primarily utilize forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. under our program, gains and losses in our foreign currency exposures are offset by losses and gains on our forward contracts. our forward contracts generally have terms of one to six months. at the end of the reporting period, open contracts are marked-to-market with unrealized gains and losses included in other income, net. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis on our foreign forward exchange contract portfolio using a statistical model to estimate the potential gain or loss in fair value that could arise from hypothetical appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency: value of contracts value of contracts given x% given x% appreciation of depreciation of foreign foreign currency notional currency foreign forward exchange contracts 10% 5% amount (5)% (10)% (in millions) purchased, april 1, 2011 $ 217 $ 208 $ 199 $ 188 $ 177 sold, april 1, 2011 $ 271 $ 283 $ 298 $ 313 $ 331 purchased, april 2, 2010 $ 217 $ 209 $ 199 $ 189 $ 177 sold, april 2, 2010 $ 236 $ 248 $ 260 $ 274 $ 289 equity price risk in june 2006, we issued $1.1 billion in principal amount of 0.75% notes and $1.0 billion in principal amount of 1.00% notes. we received proceeds of $2.1 billion from the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes and incurred net transaction costs of approximately $33 million, of which $9 million was allocated to equity and the remainder 49 table of contents allocated proportionately to the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes. the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes were each issued at par and bear interest at 0.75% and 1.00% per annum, respectively. interest is payable semiannually in arrears on june 15 and december 15. concurrent with the issuance of the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes, the company entered into note hedge transactions with affiliates of certain initial purchasers whereby the company has the option to purchase up to 110 million shares of symantec common stock at a price of $19.12 per share. the cost of the note hedge transactions was approximately $592 million. in september 2010, we repurchased $500 million aggregate principal amount of our 0.75% notes. concurrently with this repurchase, we sold a proportionate share of the initial note hedges back to the note hedge counterparties for approximately $13 million. these transactions resulted in a loss from extinguishment of debt of approximately $16 million, which represents the difference between book value of the notes net of the remaining unamortized discount prior to repurchase and the fair value of the liability component of the notes upon repurchase. the net cost of the repurchase of the 0.75% notes and the concurrent sale of the note hedges was $497 million in cash. the convertible senior notes have a fixed annual interest rate and therefore, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the convertible senior notes. however, the values of the convertible senior notes are exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of our fixed interest rate convertible senior notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. in addition, the fair values of our convertible senior notes are affected by our stock price. the carrying value of the 0.75% notes was $596 million as of april 1, 2011. this represents the liability component of the $600 million principal balance as of april 1, 2011. the total estimated fair value of our 0.75% notes at april 1, 2011 was $618 million and the fair value was determined based on the closing trading price per $100 of the 0.75% notes as of the last day of trading for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, which was $103.00. the carrying value of the 1.00% notes was $890 million as of april 1, 2011. this represents the liability component of the $1.0 billion principal balance as of april 1, 2011. the total estimated fair value of our 1.00% notes at april 1, 2011 was $1.2 billion and the fair value was determined based on the closing trading price per $100 of the 1.00% notes as of the last day of trading for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2011, which was $120.81. for business and strategic purposes, we also hold equity interests in several privately held companies, many of which can be considered to be in the start-up or development stages. these investments are inherently risky and we could lose a substantial part or our entire investment in these companies. these investments are recorded at cost and classified as other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as of april 1, 2011, these investments had an aggregate carrying value of $30 million. 50 table of contentsrisk factors 12 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. the recent global economic crisis may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. the recent global economic crisis has caused a tightening in the credit markets, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. these macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. for example, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. the current economic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, financial institution difficulties and/or failures may make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. finally, our cash and our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. our investment in our joint venture with huawei technologies co. ltd. could also become impaired. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our cash and our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be harmed. 12 table of contents fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our actual and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products declines because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenues and gross margin could be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as netbooks entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions incorporating acquired products and technologies trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship new or acquired products developing or expanding efficient sales channels obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems in addition, if we cannot adapt our business models to keep pace with industry trends, our revenue could be negatively impacted. in connection with our enterprise software offerings, we license our applications on a variety of bases, such as per server, per processor, or based on performance criteria such as per amount of data processed or stored. if enterprises continue to migrate towards solutions, such as virtualization, which allow enterprises to run multiple applications and operating systems on a single server and thereby reduce the number of servers they are required to own and operate, we may experience lower license revenues unless we are able to successfully change our enterprise licensing model or sell additional software to take into account the impact of these new solutions. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 13 table of contents we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a drop in revenue that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain a successful research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, we could experience a negative effect on our competitive position and our financial results. our traditional competitors include independent software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if they more actively promote our competitors products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. we face growing competition from network equipment and computer hardware manufacturers and large operating system providers. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. another growing industry trend is the saas business model, whereby software vendors develop and host their applications for use by customers over the internet. this allows enterprises to obtain the benefits of commercially licensed, internally operated software without the associated complexity or high initial set-up and operational costs. advances in the saas business model could enable the growth of our competitors and could affect the success of our traditional software licensing models. we have released our own saas offerings and we recently acquired message labs, a provider of saas offerings, and we continue to incorporate these offerings into our licensing model. however, it is uncertain whether our saas strategy will prove successful or whether we will be able to successfully incorporate our saas offerings into our current licensing models. our inability to successfully develop and market saas product offerings could cause us to lose business to competitors. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales. a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with this sales channel include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force 14 table of contents substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive, including regular updates to cover new and revised products indirect sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users our resellers and distributors are not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers oem sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the shipping dates or volume of systems shipped our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due, among other things, to an increasingly competitive relationship with certain partners sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no associated revenues the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales as noted above, the amount of our sales through our oem channels is significantly affected by our partners sales of new products into which our products are bundled. the adverse developments in global economic conditions are, among other things, adversely affecting personal computer sales, and if this trend continues our consumer segment could continue to be adversely affected. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. 15 table of contents we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions that give rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies into our existing business, sales force, employee base, product lines, and technology diversion of management time and attention from our existing business and other business opportunities loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees assumption of debt or other liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders increased costs and efforts in connection with compliance with section 404 of the sarbanes-oxley act substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense, such as the $7.4 billion goodwill write-down we recorded during fiscal 2009 integrating acquired businesses has been and will continue to be a complex, time consuming, and expensive process, and can impact the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects that we currently do not foresee. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. in addition, because acquisitions of high technology companies are inherently risky, no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be successful and will not adversely affect our business, operating results, or financial condition. we have not historically maintained substantial levels of indebtedness, and our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. in june 2006, we sold $2.1 billion in aggregate principal amount of convertible senior notes. as a result of the sale of the notes, we have a substantially greater amount of long-term debt than we have maintained in the past. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. as of april 3, 2009, we had no borrowings under our credit facility. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. our maintenance of substantial levels of debt could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. of our outstanding convertible notes, $1.1 billion matures and is repayable in june 2011 and the balance is due in june 2013. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. 16 table of contents our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or may not be adequately enforced requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s. fluctuations in currency exchange rates and economic instability such as higher interest rates in the u.s. and inflation that could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries reduced sales due to the failure to obtain any required export approval of our technologies, particularly our encryption technologies costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages political unrest, war, or terrorism, particularly in areas in which we have facilities a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the united states continue to increase. the level of corporate tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and 17 table of contents networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, may have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain our key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other critical personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of employee stock options and other forms of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. from time to time, key personnel leave our company. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. we are regularly a party to class action lawsuits, which often require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could negatively impact our business, results of operations, and cash flows. 18 table of contents third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the business software alliance ( bsa ), or the software information industry association ( siia ), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license ( gpl ), gnu lesser general public license ( lgpl ), the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner, we could, under certain of the open source licenses, be required to release the source code of our proprietary software. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all 19 table of contents open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. our software products and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. although we believe we have sufficient controls in place to prevent intentional disruptions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. our activities could be adversely affected and our reputation, brand and future sales harmed if these intentionally disruptive efforts are successful. increased customer demands on our technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets, including acquired product rights impairment of goodwill stock-based compensation expense restructuring charges impairment of long-lived assets loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale for example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a significant net loss for the year. goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. our assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of that reporting unit. our determination of fair value relies on management assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. if management estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment charge. in addition, we evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that the value of these assets might be impaired. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an impairment charge against the value of these assets. 20 table of contents the foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred in connection with or as a result of other business acquisitions. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing accounting charges. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce our net (loss) income. our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determinations of the amount of taxes owed in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction in which we are subject to taxes has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could adversely affect our operations and operating results. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products entry of new competition into our markets competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses) our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter 21 table of contents enterprise customers tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers movement in interest rates the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide acts of war or terrorism intentional disruptions by third parties health or similar issues, such as a pandemic any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our competitors operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers gain or loss of a significant customer inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. 22 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 52 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk our exposure to interest rate risk relates primarily to our short-term investment portfolio and the potential losses arising from changes in interest rates. our investment objective is to achieve the maximum return compatible with capital preservation and our liquidity requirements. our strategy is to invest our cash in a manner that preserves capital, maintains sufficient liquidity to meet our cash requirements, maximizes yields consistent with approved credit risk, and limits inappropriate concentrations of investment by sector, credit, or issuer. we classify our cash equivalents and short-term investments in accordance with sfas no. 115, accounting for certain investments in 52 table of contents debt and equity securities. we consider investments in instruments purchased with an original maturity of 90 days or less to be cash equivalents. we classify our short-term investments as available-for-sale, and short-term investments consist of marketable debt or equity securities with original maturities in excess of 90 days. our cash equivalents and short-term investment portfolios consist primarily of money market funds, commercial paper, corporate debt securities, and u.s. government and government-sponsored debt securities. our short-term investments do not include equity investments in privately held companies. our short-term investments are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in accumulated other comprehensive income within stockholders equity in the consolidated balance sheets. the amortization of premiums and discounts on the investments, realized gains and losses, and declines in value judged to be other-than-temporary on available-for-sale securities are included in other income, net in the consolidated statements of operations. we use the specific identification method to determine cost in calculating realized gains and losses upon sale of short-term investments. the following table presents the fair value and hypothetical changes in fair values on short-term investments sensitive to changes in interest rates (in millions): value of securities given an value of securities given an interest interest rate increase of rate decrease of x x basis points (bps) fair value basis points (bps) 150 bps 100 bps 50 bps as of (25 bps) (75 bps) april 3, 2009 $ 680 $ 680 $ 680 $ 680 $ 681 $ 681 march 28, 2008 $ 1,301 $ 1,302 $ 1,304 $ 1,305 $ 1,305 $ 1,306 the modeling technique used above measures the change in fair market value arising from selected potential changes in interest rates. market changes reflect immediate hypothetical parallel shifts in the yield curve of plus 150 bps, plus 100 bps, plus 50 bps, minus 25 bps, and minus 75 bps. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 40 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency exposure risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates will result in foreign exchange gains and losses on these foreign currency assets and liabilities and are included in other income, net. our objective in managing foreign exchange activity is to preserve stockholder value by minimizing the risk of foreign currency exchange rate changes. our strategy is to primarily utilize forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. under our program, gains and losses in our foreign currency exposures are offset by losses and gains on our forward contracts. our forward contracts generally have terms of one to six months. at the end of the reporting period, open contracts are marked-to-market with unrealized gains and losses included in other income, net. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis on our foreign forward exchange contract portfolio using a statistical model to estimate the potential gain or loss in fair value that could arise from hypothetical appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency (in millions): value of value of contracts contracts given x% given x% appreciation of depreciation of foreign foreign currency notional currency foreign forward exchange contracts 10% 5% amount (5)% (10)% purchased, april 3, 2009 $ 264 $ 252 $ 240 $ 228 $ 216 sold, april 3, 2009 $ 320 $ 337 $ 355 $ 373 $ 391 purchased, march 28, 2008 $ 196 $ 189 $ 180 $ 171 $ 160 sold, march 28, 2008 $ 352 $ 369 $ 387 $ 407 $ 430 53 table of contents equity price risk in june 2006, we issued $1.1 billion principal amount of 0.75% convertible senior notes due 2011 and $1.0 billion of 1.00% convertible senior notes due 2013. holders may convert their senior notes prior to maturity upon the occurrence of certain circumstances. upon conversion, we would pay the holder the cash value of the applicable number of shares of symantec common stock, up to the principal amount of the note. amounts in excess of the principal amount, if any, may be paid in cash or in stock at our option. concurrent with the issuance of the senior notes, we entered into convertible note hedge transactions and separately, warrant transactions, to reduce the potential dilution from the conversion of the senior notes and to mitigate any negative effect such conversion may have on the price of our common stock. for business and strategic purposes, we also hold equity interests in several privately held companies, many of which can be considered to be in the start-up or development stages. these investments are inherently risky and we could lose a substantial part or our entire investment in these companies. these investments are recorded at cost and classified as other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as of april 3, 2009, these investments had an aggregate carrying value of $3 million.risk factors 13 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience, including the delivery of solutions in an appliance form factor managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship our products developing or expanding efficient sales channels 13 table of contents obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our traditional competitors include independent software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. we expect that competition will intensify as a result of future software industry consolidation . in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such as intel corporation 14 table of contents acquisition of mcafee, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. our business models present execution and competitive risks. in recent years, our saas offerings have become increasingly critical in our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying saas offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own saas strategies. we cannot assure you that our investments in and development of saas offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support saas offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our saas offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. our increasing focus on the delivery of products in an appliance form factor creates new business and financial risks. during fiscal 2012, we began shipping more products to customers in an appliance form factor, and we expect this trend to continue. the delivery of solutions in the form of appliances creates new business and financial risks, including the following: increased cost of components and contract manufacturing, as we do not own our manufacturing facilities; supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers; a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs and/or causes a delay in order fulfillment; excess inventory levels, which could lead to write-downs or obsolescence charges; additional reserves for product returns; challenges in managing our channel business; tax and trade compliance complications; and local field support of customers appliances. we cannot assure you that we will continue to have success in our appliance business. defects or disruptions in our saas offerings could reduce demand for our services and subject us to substantial liability. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. 15 table of contents risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. as we continue to offer more of our software products in a saas-based delivery model, all of these risks could be exacerbated. our saas offerings also involve the storage and transmission of large amounts of our customers proprietary information, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against such breaches, our security measures could be breached at any time and could result in unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our customers data. any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our saas offerings could reduce sales, and constrain consumer and business customer adoption of our saas offering. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further security measures could be significant. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales. a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our products and services, including regular updates to cover new and revised products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates. indirect sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors 16 table of contents recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers oem sales channels. a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. we are currently planning and designing information systems enhancements, and problems with the design or implementation of these enhancements could interfere with our business and operations. we are currently in the process of significantly enhancing our information systems, including planning and designing a new enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of significant enhancements to information systems is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise, which may especially be the case for us due to the size and complexity of our businesses. any disruptions relating to our systems enhancements, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations during the design or implementation periods, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the planning, designing and implementation may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully plan, design or implement the information systems enhancements as planned, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. 17 table of contents we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies diversion of management time and attention loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from our acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of our 1.00% convertible senior notes ( 1.00% notes ) in june 2006, and 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75% notes ) and 4.20% senior notes ( 4.20% notes ), collectively referred to as the senior notes in september 2010, we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $2.1 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2013, 2015 and 2020, with approximately half of this indebtedness due in june 2013. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. the maintenance of our debt levels could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. an adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, 18 table of contents or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon the financial performance of our existing international operations as well as our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s. fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities 19 table of contents a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the united states continue to increase. the level of corporate tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of computer configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or 20 table of contents be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the business software alliance ( bsa ), or the software &amp; information industry association ( siia ), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. in january 2012, we became aware of disclosure of the source code for 2006-era versions of certain of our norton and pcanywhere products, which we believe was the result of a theft of source code that occurred in 2006. any unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of this source code could result in the loss of future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue, operating margins, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. unauthorized disclosure of the source code also could increase the security risks described under our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales below. from time to time we are a party to class action and other lawsuits, which often require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow . in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products and offerings and harm 21 table of contents our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could adversely affect our operations and operating results. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products entry of new competition into our markets competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses) our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter enterprise customers tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers changes in the mix or type of products sold, particularly as our business continues to evolve into new models such as saas and appliances movements in interest rates the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide 22 table of contents acts of war or terrorism intentional disruptions by third parties health or similar issues, such as a pandemic any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license ( gpl ), gnu lesser general public license ( lgpl ), the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. if we are unable to adequately address increased customer demands on our technical support services, our relationships with our customers and our financial results may be adversely affected. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets stock-based compensation expense restructuring charges loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale 23 table of contents for example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a significant net loss for the year. goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. our assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of that reporting unit. our determination of fair value relies on management assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. if management estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment charge. in addition, we evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that the value of these assets might be impaired. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an impairment charge against the value of these assets. the foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred in connection with or as a result of other business acquisitions. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing accounting charges. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. from time to time, key personnel leave our company. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings 24 table of contents the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties, could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers gain or loss of a significant customer, partner, reseller or distributor inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of march 30, 2012, we had $1.1 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $1.1 billion and a fair value of $1.13 billion, which fair value is based on level 2 inputs of market prices for similar convertible debt instruments and resulting yields. on march 30, 2012, a hypothetical 50 bps increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate debt by a decrease 50 table of contents of approximately $22 million and an increase of approximately $45 million, respectively. however, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 38 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. fluctuations in exchange rates will result in foreign exchange gains and losses on these foreign currency assets and liabilities and are included in other (expense) income, net. our objective in managing foreign exchange activity is to preserve stockholder value by minimizing the risk of foreign currency exchange rate changes. our strategy is to primarily utilize forward contracts to hedge foreign currency exposures. under our program, gains and losses in our foreign currency exposures are offset by losses and gains on our forward contracts. our forward contracts generally have terms of one to six months. at the end of the reporting period, open contracts are marked-to-market with unrealized gains and losses included in other (expense) income, net. the following table presents a sensitivity analysis on our foreign forward exchange contract portfolio using a statistical model to estimate the potential gain or loss in fair value that could arise from hypothetical appreciation or depreciation of foreign currency: value of contracts given x% appreciation of foreign currency notional amount value of contracts given x% depreciation of foreign currency foreign forward exchange contracts 10% 5% (5)% (10)% (in millions) purchased, march 30, 2012 $ 353 $ 339 $ 323 $ 306 $ 287 sold, march 30, 2012 $ 267 $ 280 $ 294 $ 309 $ 327 purchased, april 1, 2011 $ 217 $ 208 $ 199 $ 188 $ 177 sold, april 1, 2011 $ 271 $ 283 $ 298 $ 313 $ 331 equity price risk in june 2006, we issued $1.1 billion in principal amount of 0.75% notes and $1.0 billion in principal amount of 1.00% notes. we received proceeds of $2.1 billion from the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes and incurred net transaction costs of approximately $33 million, of which $9 million was allocated to equity and the remainder allocated proportionately to the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes. the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes were each issued at par and bear interest at 0.75% and 1.00% per annum, respectively. interest is payable semiannually in arrears on june 15 and december 15. concurrent with the issuance of the 0.75% notes and 1.00% notes, the company entered into note hedge transactions with affiliates of certain initial purchasers whereby the company has the option to purchase up to 110 million shares of symantec common stock at a price of $19.12 per share. the cost of the note hedge transactions was approximately $592 million. in september 2010, we repurchased $500 million of aggregate principal amount of our 0.75% convertible senior notes in privately negotiated transactions for approximately $510 million. concurrently with the repurchase, we sold a proportionate share of the note hedges that we entered into at the time of the issuance of the convertible senior notes back to the note hedge counterparties for approximately $13 million. the net cost of the repurchase and the concurrent sale of the note hedges was $497 million in cash. on june 15, 2011, we repaid the remaining principal balance of $600 million under our 0.75% convertible senior notes upon maturity. concurrent with the maturity, the remaining related note hedges and warrants expired. no portion of these hedges and warrants was converted into our common shares upon maturity. 51 table of contents the convertible senior notes have a fixed annual interest rate and therefore, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the convertible senior notes. however, the values of the convertible senior notes are exposed to interest rate risk. generally, the fair market value of our fixed interest rate convertible senior notes will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. in addition, the fair values of our convertible senior notes are affected by our stock price. the carrying value of the 1.00% notes was $941 million as of march 30, 2012 which represents the liability component of the $1.0 billion principal balance. the total estimated fair value of our 1.00% notes at march 30, 2012 was $1.1 billion and the fair value was determined based on the closing trading price per $100 of the 1.00% notes as of the last day of trading for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2012, which was $111.50. see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements. for business and strategic purposes, we also hold equity interests in several privately held companies, many of which can be considered to be in the start-up or development stages. these investments are inherently risky and we could lose a substantial part or our entire investment in these companies. these investments are recorded at cost and classified as other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets. as of march 30, 2012, we held equity investments in privately-held companies of $40 million.risk factors 13 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience, including the delivery of solutions in an appliance form factor 13 table of contents managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship our products developing or expanding efficient sales channels obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our traditional competitors include independent software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. we expect that competition may intensify as a result of future software industry consolidation. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products 14 table of contents as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such as intel corporation acquisition of mcafee, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. our business models present execution and competitive risks. in recent years, our saas offerings have become increasingly critical in our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying saas offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own saas strategies. we cannot assure you that our investments in and development of saas offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support saas offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our saas offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. our increasing focus on the delivery of products in an appliance form factor creates new business and financial risks. since fiscal 2012, shipments of products to customers in an appliance form factor have represented an increasingly larger part of our revenues, and we expect this trend to continue. the delivery of solutions in the form of appliances creates new business and financial risks, including the following: increased cost of components and contract manufacturing, as we do not own our manufacturing facilities; supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers; a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs and/or causes a delay in order fulfillment; excess inventory levels, which could lead to write-downs or obsolescence charges; additional reserves for product returns; challenges in managing our channel business; tax and trade compliance complications; and local field support of customers appliances. we cannot assure you that we will continue to have success in our appliance business. 15 table of contents we have begun investing in a plan to better meet customer needs through internal innovation and driving faster organic growth, with a particular focus on key areas that combine our existing products and services into new solutions that are designed to meet multiple customer needs with integrated higher value offerings, and if the return on these investments is lower or develops more slowly than we expect, our operating results may be harmed. pursuant to our recently announced restructuring plan, we have been reallocating talent within our organization and are dedicating spending and resources to focus on certain key areas, such as mobile workforce productivity, norton protection, norton cloud, information security services, identity/content-aware security gateway, data center security, business continuity, integrated backup, cloud-based information management and object storage platform. we expect research and development expenses to increase through fiscal 2017 as we invest to drive organic innovation for our customers. while we will seek to have the right level of investment and the right level of resources focused on our biggest growth opportunities, the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments (including if our selection of areas for investment does not play out as we expect), or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. over the long term we intend to invest in engineering, sales, service, marketing and manufacturing activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. defects or disruptions in our saas offerings could reduce demand for our services and subject us to substantial liability. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. as we continue to offer more of our software products in a saas-based delivery model, all of these risks could be exacerbated. our saas offerings also involve the storage and transmission of large amounts of our customers proprietary information, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the 16 table of contents accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against such breaches, our security measures could be breached at any time and could result in unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our customers data. any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our saas offerings could reduce sales, and constrain consumer and business customer adoption of our saas offering. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further security measures could be significant. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our products and services, including regular updates to cover new and revised products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates. during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013, we announced a plan to refocus our direct field sales representatives on generating new business, and to create, over time, a dedicated renewals team. transitions of this kind can be disruptive to the sales organization and could exacerbate the risks noted above. indirect sales channels . a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors recent consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers oem sales channels . a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments 17 table of contents our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances, our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2013 we announced a new strategy designed to drive organic growth, simplify our operating model and concentrate our focus on selected key areas. we expect this plan to involve significant transitions as we, among other things, eliminate duplicative organization and operating structures. we will incur significant restructuring charges as we implement these activities. the changes to our business model may be disruptive, and the revised model that we adopt may not be more efficient or effective than the aspects of our business model that are being revised. our restructuring activities, including any related charges and related headcount reduction, could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. 18 table of contents we are currently planning and designing information systems enhancements, and problems with the design or implementation of these enhancements could interfere with our business and operations. we are currently in the process of significantly enhancing our information systems, including planning and designing a new enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of significant enhancements to information systems is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise, which may especially be the case for us due to the size and complexity of our businesses. any disruptions relating to our systems enhancements, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations during the design or implementation periods, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the planning, designing and implementation may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully plan, design or implement the information systems enhancements as planned, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies diversion of management time and attention loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from our acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of our 1.00% convertible senior notes ( 1.00% notes ) in june 2006, 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75% notes due 2015 ) and 4.20% senior notes ( 4.20% notes ) in september 2010, and 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75 notes due 2017 ) and 3.95% senior notes ( 3.95 notes ) in june 2012, we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $3.1 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2013, 2015, 2017, 19 table of contents 2020, and 2022. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. the maintenance of our debt levels could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. an adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s. fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries 20 table of contents limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the united states continue to increase. the level of corporate tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. 21 table of contents if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the business software alliance ( bsa ), or the software &amp; information industry association ( siia ), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. in january 2012, we became aware of disclosure of the source code for 2006-era versions of certain of our norton and pcanywhere products, which we believe was the result of a theft of source code that occurred in 2006. any unauthorized disclosure of a significant portion of our source code could result in the loss of future trade secret protection for that source code. this could make it easier for third parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our revenue, operating margins, results of operations and cash flows, as well as our reputation. unauthorized disclosure of our source code also could increase the security risks described under our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales below. from time to time we are a party to class action and other lawsuits, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification 22 table of contents obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products and offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could adversely affect our operations and operating results. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products entry of new competition into our markets competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products how well we execute our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses) our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter enterprise customers tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter 23 table of contents cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers changes in the mix or type of products sold, particularly as our business continues to evolve into new models such as saas and appliances movements in interest rates the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide acts of war or terrorism intentional disruptions by third parties health or similar issues, such as a pandemic any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license ( gpl ), gnu lesser general public license ( lgpl ), the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. if we are unable to adequately address increased customer demands on our technical support services, our relationships with our customers and our financial results may be adversely affected. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. 24 table of contents we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets stock-based compensation expense restructuring charges loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale for example, during fiscal 2009, we recorded a non-cash goodwill impairment charge of $7.4 billion, resulting in a significant net loss for the year. goodwill is evaluated annually for impairment in the fourth quarter of each fiscal year or more frequently if events and circumstances warrant as we determined they did in the third quarter of fiscal 2009, and our evaluation depends to a large degree on estimates and assumptions made by our management. our assessment of any impairment of goodwill is based on a comparison of the fair value of each of our reporting units to the carrying value of that reporting unit. our determination of fair value relies on management assumptions of our future revenues, operating costs, and other relevant factors. if management estimates of future operating results change, or if there are changes to other key assumptions such as the discount rate applied to future operating results, the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units could change significantly, which could result in a goodwill impairment charge. in addition, we evaluate our other long-lived assets, including intangible assets whenever events or circumstances occur which indicate that the value of these assets might be impaired. if we determine that impairment has occurred, we could incur an impairment charge against the value of these assets. the foregoing types of accounting charges may also be incurred in connection with or as a result of other business acquisitions. the price of our common stock could decline to the extent that our financial results are materially affected by the foregoing accounting charges. we sell products to the u.s. government under contracts that include special compliance obligations and subject us to audits and reviews by various agencies of the u.s. government. any failure to meet these obligations, or an adverse outcome in an audit or investigation, could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we have sold products through our u.s. general services administration multiple award schedule contract no. gs-35f-0240t effective january 24, 2007 (the gsa schedule contract ). our gsa schedule contract contains provisions that require us to provide customers purchasing through that contract with negotiated favorable pricing as compared to certain non-federal customers, and requires us to monitor aspects of our commercial sales practices to ensure compliance with that pricing obligation. in the ordinary course of business, sales under our gsa schedule contract may be subject to audit and/or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance with the provisions of the contract identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 25 table of contents on june 4, 2012, we were advised by the commercial litigation branch of the department of justice civil division and the civil division of the u.s. attorney office for the district of columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our gsa schedule contract, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices. the department of justice has requested that we preserve, among other things, all records relating to gsa schedule contracting activity. as reported on the gsa publicly-available database, our total sales under the gsa schedule contract were approximately $210 million from the period beginning january 2007 and ending december 2011. we are cooperating with the investigation and we are unable, at this time, to predict the likely outcome. it is possible that the investigation could lead to claims or findings of violations of the false claims act in connection with our gsa contracting activity. violations of the false claims act could result in the imposition of damages, including up to treble damages, plus civil penalties in some cases. to the extent the investigation leads to any such claims or findings, the cost to resolve this matter would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. any negative publicity related to our government customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of the outcome of this matter, may also damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity- based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. from time to time, key personnel leave our company. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings 26 table of contents the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction has determined that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers gain or loss of a significant customer, partner, reseller or distributor inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of march 29, 2013, we had $2.10 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $2.10 billion and a fair value of $2.19 billion, which fair value is based on level 2 inputs of market prices for similar debt instruments and resulting yields. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of march 29, 2013 by using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 50 bps movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. on march 29, 2013, a hypothetical 50 bps increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate senior notes by a decrease of approximately $57 million and an increase of approximately $59 million, respectively. however, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. 53 table of contents foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 32 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign currency transaction gains and losses is the result of certain net receivables due from our foreign subsidiaries and customers being denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary, primarily the euro and singapore dollar. our foreign subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency. we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to six months in duration, to offset the foreign exchange risk on certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local currency of the subsidiary. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates for all currencies could be experienced. the estimated impacts of a five or ten percent appreciation or depreciation in value are as follows: value of contracts given x% appreciation of foreign currency notional amount value of contracts given x% depreciation of foreign currency foreign forward exchange contracts 10% 5% (5)% (10)% (in millions) purchased, march 29, 2013 $ 321 $ 309 $ 295 $ 279 $ 262 sold, march 29, 2013 $ 334 $ 349 $ 367 $ 386 $ 408 we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. equity price risk in june 2006, we issued $1.0 billion principal amount of 1.00% notes due june 2013. the 1.00% notes have a fixed annual interest rate and therefore, we do not have economic interest rate exposure on the convertible senior notes. however, the fair value will increase as interest rates fall and/or our common stock price increases, and decrease as interest rates rise and/or our common stock price decreases. the interest and market value changes affect the fair value of the 1.00% notes, but do not impact our financial position, cash flows, or results of operations due to the fixed nature of the debt obligations. the carrying value of the 1.00% notes was $997 million as of march 29, 2013 which represents the liability component of the $1.0 billion principal balance. the total estimated fair value of our 1.00% notes at march 29, 2013 was $1.29 billion and the fair value was determined based on the closing trading price of $129 per $100 of the 1.00% notes as of that date. see note 6 of the notes to consolidated financial statements in this annual report. 54 table of contentsrisk factors 11 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. in january 2013, under the direction of our then-new chief executive officer, we commenced a plan to revitalize our business model, with a focus on operations, sales and organizational structure with the goal of improving our existing products and services. at the same time we laid out a roadmap to develop new, innovative products and services that solve important unmet or underserved needs. one set of challenges relates to leadership under our new business model as, in recent periods, we have experienced transitions of several senior officers, including our chief executive officer. while our board of directors remains committed to our strategic direction, management transitions can be disruptive and result in loss of institutional focus and employee morale, making execution of business strategies more difficult. we are also in the process of seeking to address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the decline in the pc market, the market shift towards tablets within mobility and architectural shifts in the provision of security and storage solutions, all of which has made it more difficult for us to compete effectively and requires us to improve our product and service offerings. a third set of challenges relates to gtm execution as we have significantly reorganized our sales structure and have only recently announced our new product strategy. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with these efforts given our multiple business units and the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced products and services, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance, and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares available for issuance under our equity compensation plans, and accounting rules require us to treat the issuance of equity-based compensation as compensation expense. as a result, we may decide to issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 11 table of contents effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company and the incidence of this increased in recent periods following the transition within the office of the chief executive officer ( ceo ) in 2013. in addition, we could experience similar departures following our recent chief executive officer transition. while we strive to reduce the negative impact of such changes, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting, and the results of our operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future revenues. these risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the successive transitions in the office of the chief executive officer. fluctuations in demand for our products and services are driven by many factors, and a decrease in demand for our products could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our products and services due to a variety of factors, including general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, levels of broadband usage, awareness of security threats to it systems, and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our product sales. if demand for our products and solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions or a shift in buying patterns, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced products and services that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing products and services or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers by developing or introducing new products, product upgrades, and services on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. new product development and introduction involves a significant commitment of time and resources and is subject to a number of risks and challenges including: managing the length of the development cycle for new products and product enhancements, which has frequently been longer than we originally expected adapting to emerging and evolving industry standards and to technological developments by our competitors and customers extending the operation of our products and services to new and evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices entering into new or unproven markets with which we have limited experience managing new product and service strategies, including integrating our various security and storage technologies, management solutions, customer service, and support into unified enterprise security and storage solutions addressing trade compliance issues affecting our ability to ship our products developing or expanding efficient sales channels obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access from operating system software vendors on reasonable terms to enable the development and deployment of interoperable products, including source code licenses for certain products with deep technical integration into operating systems 12 table of contents if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new products, product upgrades, and services are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our products that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new products and services and enhance existing products and services, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies, and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used, and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software vendors that offer software products that directly compete with our product offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our products, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our products bundled with the product offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our products with the products of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors products than our products. in addition, software vendors who have bundled our products with theirs may choose to bundle their software with their own or other vendors software or may limit our access to standard product interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop products for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our software applications and services to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies. these firms are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection and storage and server management software that competes at some levels with our product offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our products. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer the lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products that we believe are inferior to our products and saas offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured products and services such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and financial results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our products, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing, or other resources than we do and consequently may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment, such as intel corporation acquisition of mcafee, could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. 13 table of contents our business models present execution and competitive risks. in recent years, our saas offerings have become increasingly critical in our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying saas offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we are devoting significant resources to develop and deploy our own saas strategies. we cannot assure you that our investments in and development of saas offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support saas offerings. these costs may reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based experiences that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our saas offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings. a large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and saas offerings, yet existing customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period, and given our limited operating history, we are unable to accurately predict our customer renewal rates. our customers renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including the level of their satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, if at all. accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. if these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. our increasing focus on the delivery of products in an appliance form factor creates new business and financial risks. since fiscal 2012, shipments of products to customers in an appliance form factor have represented an increasingly larger part of our revenues, and we expect this trend to continue. the delivery of solutions in the form of appliances creates business and financial risks, including the following: increased cost of components and contract manufacturing, as we do not own our manufacturing facilities; supply chain issues, including financial problems of contract manufacturers or component suppliers; a shortage of adequate component supply or manufacturing capacity that increases our costs and/or causes a delay in order fulfillment; excess inventory levels, which could lead to write-downs or obsolescence charges; additional reserves for product returns; challenges in managing our channel business; tax and trade compliance complications; and local field support of customers appliances. 14 table of contents defects, disruptions or risks related to the provision of our saas offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. our saas offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our saas offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our saas offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. if that occurs, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. we currently serve our saas-based customers from hosting facilities located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our saas offerings are unreliable. our saas offerings also involve the storage and transmission of large amounts of our customers proprietary information, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against such breaches, our security measures could be breached at any time and could result in unauthorized third parties obtaining access to our, or our customers data. any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our saas offerings could reduce sales, and constrain consumer and business customer adoption of our saas offering. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further security measures could be significant. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively or if our partners choose not to market and sell our products to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our products to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. special risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our products and services, including regular updates to cover new and revised products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates 15 table of contents indirect sales channels . a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our products to end-users our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing products and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these products due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors the consolidation of electronics retailers has increased their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us oem sales channels . a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of systems shipped and the timing of such shipments our oem partners are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our products to their customers our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our products may make it more difficult to introduce those products to the market our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own products and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced sales or increased bad debt expense that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could result in adverse operating results in future periods. over the long term we intend to invest in research and development activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we intend to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation. we are likely to recognize the costs associated with these investments earlier than some of the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. 16 table of contents changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuances of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of, or otherwise exiting businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances, our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. furthermore, our business administration, human resources and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis which could affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner. any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneous, fraud or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our products and services could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. in addition, our business would be harmed if any of events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. 17 table of contents we are currently planning and designing information systems enhancements, and problems with the design or implementation of these enhancements could interfere with our business and operations. we are currently in the process of significantly enhancing our information systems, including planning and designing a new enterprise resource planning system. the implementation of significant enhancements to information systems is frequently disruptive to the underlying business of an enterprise, which may especially be the case for us due to the size and complexity of our businesses. any disruptions relating to our systems enhancements, particularly any disruptions impacting our operations during the design or implementation periods, could adversely affect our ability to process customer orders, ship products, provide services and support to our customers, bill and track our customers, fulfill contractual obligations, and otherwise run our business. even if we do not encounter these adverse effects, the planning, designing and implementation may be much more costly than we anticipated. if we are unable to successfully plan, design or implement the information systems enhancements as planned, our financial position, results of operations, and cash flows could be negatively impacted. we have grown, and may continue to grow, through acquisitions, which gives rise to risks and challenges that could adversely affect our future financial results. we have in the past acquired, and we expect to acquire in the future, other businesses, business units, and technologies. acquisitions can involve a number of special risks and challenges, including: complexity, time, and costs associated with the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, and technologies diversion of management time and attention loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees assumption of liabilities of the acquired business, including litigation related to the acquired business the addition of acquisition-related debt as well as increased expenses and working capital requirements dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders substantial accounting charges for restructuring and related expenses, write-off of in-process research and development, impairment of goodwill, amortization of intangible assets, and stock-based compensation expense if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must implement our technology systems in the acquired operations and integrate and manage the personnel of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability from our acquired businesses or to realize other anticipated benefits of acquisitions. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. we plan to expand our international operations, but such expansion is contingent upon our identification of growth opportunities. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced 18 table of contents requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including trade and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s. fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or that could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations, including difficulties related to administering our stock plans in some foreign countries difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. are denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we expect to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates in the future, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the united states continue to increase. the level of corporate tax from sales to our non-u.s. customers is generally less than the level of tax from sales to our u.s. customers. this benefit is contingent upon existing tax regulations in the u.s. and in the countries in which our international operations are located. future changes in domestic or international tax regulations could adversely affect our ability to continue to realize these tax benefits. our products are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in errors or product failures. because we offer very complex products, undetected errors, failures, or bugs may occur, especially when products are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our products or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our products. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new products or releases until after commencement of commercial shipments. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our product offerings after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in products released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand, product returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by 19 table of contents customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our products in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our products than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our products could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays, or cessation of our product licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark, and trade secret laws. however, all of these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, alone or through our alliances with the business software alliance ( bsa ), or the software &amp; information industry association ( siia ), could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. from time to time we are a party to class action and other lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could, if not determined favorably, negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have been named as a party to class action lawsuits, and we may be named in additional litigation. for example, during the first quarter of fiscal 2013, we were advised by the commercial litigation branch of the department of justice civil division and the civil division of the u.s. attorney office for the district of columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our u.s. general services administration multiple award schedule contract no. gs-35f-0240t effective january 24, 2007, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices. the expense of defending such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, we receive claims that we have infringed the intellectual property rights of others, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments 20 table of contents in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us the confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third party software, could result in shipment delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the price of our common stock in the past and could affect our stock price in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary significantly in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control and which could adversely affect our operations and operating results. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, our stock price could be negatively affected. any volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions that involve issuances of our stock. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our products may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: reduced demand for any of our products customer renewal rates entry of new competition into our markets competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of products our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our products how well we execute our strategy and operating plans and the impact of changes in our business model that could result in significant restructuring charges fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms and viruses) our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter enterprise customers tendency to negotiate site licenses near the end of each quarter cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers changes in the mix or type of products sold movements in interest rates the rate of adoption of new product technologies and new releases of operating systems weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our products and services political and military instability, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively budgetary constraints of customers, which are influenced by corporate earnings and government budget cycles and spending objectives 21 table of contents disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters affecting our headquarters located in silicon valley, california, an area known for seismic activity, or our other locations worldwide acts of war or terrorism intentional disruptions by third parties health or similar issues, such as a pandemic any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our common stock to fluctuate significantly. adverse global economic events may harm our business, operating results and financial condition. adverse macroeconomic conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition under a number of different scenarios. during challenging economic times and periods of high unemployment, current or potential customers may delay or forgo decisions to license new products or additional instances of existing products, upgrade their existing hardware or operating environments (which upgrades are often a catalyst for new purchases of our software), or purchase services. customers may also have difficulties in obtaining the requisite third-party financing to complete the purchase of our products and services. an adverse macroeconomic environment could also subject us to increased credit risk should customers be unable to pay us, or delay paying us, for previously purchased products and services. accordingly, reserves for doubtful accounts and write-offs of accounts receivable may increase. in addition, weakness in the market for end users of our products could harm the cash flow of our distributors and resellers who could then delay paying their obligations to us or experience other financial difficulties. this would further increase our credit risk exposure and, potentially, cause delays in our recognition of revenue on sales to these customers. in addition, the onset or continuation of adverse economic conditions may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions) or financing activities. specific economic trends, such as declines in the demand for pcs, servers, and other computing devices, or softness in corporate information technology spending, could have an even more direct, and harmful, impact on our business. our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our liabilities. as a result of the sale of our 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75% notes due 2015 ) and 4.20% senior notes ( 4.20% notes ) in september 2010, and 2.75% senior notes ( 2.75 notes due 2017 ) and 3.95% senior notes ( 3.95% notes ) in june 2012, we have notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $2.1 billion that mature at specific dates in calendar years 2015, 2017, 2020, and 2022. in addition, we have entered into a credit facility with a borrowing capacity of $1 billion. from time to time in the future, we may also incur indebtedness in addition to the amount available under our credit facility. the maintenance of our debt levels could adversely affect our flexibility to take advantage of certain corporate opportunities and could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we may be required to use all or a substantial portion of our cash balance to repay these notes on maturity unless we can obtain new financing. our software products, saas offerings and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our products and offerings, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance of our products and offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services. because the techniques used by such computer programmers to access or sabotage networks 22 table of contents change frequently and may not be recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques. the theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an event could adversely affect our competitive position, reputation, brand and future sales of our products, and our customers may assert claims against us related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information. our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. if we are unable to adequately address increased customer demands on our technical support services, our relationships with our customers and our financial results may be adversely affected. we offer technical support services with many of our products. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. we also may be unable to modify the format of our support services to compete with changes in support services provided by competitors or successfully integrate support for our customers. further customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. we have outsourced a substantial portion of our worldwide consumer support functions to third party service providers. if these companies experience financial difficulties, do not maintain sufficiently skilled workers and resources to satisfy our contracts, or otherwise fail to perform at a sufficient level under these contracts, the level of support services to our customers may be significantly disrupted, which could materially harm our relationships with these customers. we sell products to the u.s. government under contracts that include special compliance obligations and subject us to audits and reviews by various agencies of the u.s. government. any failure to meet these obligations, or an adverse outcome in an audit or investigation, could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we have sold products through our gsa schedule contract. our gsa schedule contract contains provisions that require us to provide customers purchasing through that contract with negotiated favorable pricing as compared to certain non-federal customers, and requires us to monitor aspects of our commercial sales practices to ensure compliance with that pricing obligation. in the ordinary course of business, sales under our gsa schedule contract may be subject to audit or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance with the provisions of the contract identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. 23 table of contents on june 4, 2012, we were advised by the commercial litigation branch of the department of justice civil division and the civil division of the u.s. attorney office for the district of columbia that the government is investigating our compliance with certain provisions of our gsa schedule contract, including provisions relating to pricing, country of origin, accessibility, and the disclosure of commercial sales practices. the department of justice has requested that we preserve, among other things, all records relating to gsa schedule contracting activity. as reported on the gsa publicly-available database, our total sales under the gsa schedule contract were approximately $222 million from the period beginning january 2007 and ending september 2012. we are cooperating with the investigation and we are unable, at this time, to predict the likely outcome. it is possible that the investigation could lead to claims or findings of violations of the false claims act in connection with our gsa contracting activity. violations of the false claims act could result in the imposition of damages, including up to treble damages, plus civil penalties in some cases. to the extent the investigation leads to any such claims or findings, the cost to resolve this matter would adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. any negative publicity related to our government customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of the outcome of this matter, may also damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. accounting charges may cause fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. our financial results have been in the past, and may continue to be in the future, materially affected by non-cash and other accounting charges, including: amortization of intangible assets impairment of goodwill and other long-lived assets stock-based compensation expense restructuring charges loss on sale of a business and similar write-downs of assets held for sale our effective tax rate may increase, which could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates changing tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including possible corporate tax reform in the united states, and proposed actions by international bodies such as the oecd, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place the price of our common stock could decline if our financial results are materially affected by an adverse change in our effective tax rate. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. we are engaged in disputes of this nature at this time. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an 24 table of contents amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. our stock price may be volatile in the future, and you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations in the past and may continue to fluctuate in the future, and as a result you could lose the value of your investment. the market price of our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including: announcements of quarterly operating results and revenue and earnings forecasts by us that fail to meet or be consistent with our earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts announcements by either our competitors or customers that fail to meet or be consistent with their earlier projections or the expectations of our investors or securities analysts rumors, announcements, or press articles regarding our or our competitors operations, management, organization, financial condition, or financial statements changes in revenue and earnings estimates by us, our investors, or securities analysts accounting charges, including charges relating to the impairment of goodwill announcements of planned acquisitions or dispositions by us or by our competitors announcements of new or planned products by us, our competitors, or our customers gain or loss of a significant customer, partner, reseller or distributor inquiries by the sec, nasdaq, law enforcement, or other regulatory bodies acts of terrorism, the threat of war, and other crises or emergency situations economic slowdowns or the perception of an oncoming economic slowdown in any of the major markets in which we operate the stock market in general, and the market prices of stocks of technology companies in particular, have experienced extreme price volatility that has adversely affected, and may continue to adversely affect, the market price of our common stock for reasons unrelated to our business or operating results. unforeseen catastrophic or other global events could harm our operating results and financial condition we are a global company and conduct our business inside and outside the united states. our business operations and financial results could be adversely impacted by unforeseen catastrophic or other global events, including an epidemic or a pandemic, acts of war or terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, natural disasters, or political unrest or turmoil. unforeseen political turmoil, military escalations, and armed conflict pose a risk of economic disruption in the countries in which they occur and in other countries, which may increase our operating costs. such incidences of uncertainty could disrupt customers spending on our products and services which may adversely affect our revenue. in addition, our corporate headquarters are located in the silicon valley area of northern california, a region known for seismic activity. a significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake, could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, target markets, operating results, and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 50 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, and equity prices. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk as of march 28, 2014, we had $2.10 billion in principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount of $2.10 billion and a fair value of $2.17 billion, which fair value is based on level 2 inputs of market prices for similar debt instruments and resulting yields. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of march 28, 2014 by using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 50 bps movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. on march 28, 2014, a hypothetical 50 bps increase or decrease in market interest rates would change the fair value of the fixed-rate senior notes by a decrease of approximately $48 million and an increase of approximately $49 million, respectively. however, this hypothetical change in interest rates would not impact the interest expense on the fixed-rate debt. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in 38 currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. foreign currency risks are associated with our cash and cash equivalents, investments, receivables, and payables denominated in foreign currencies. our exposure to foreign currency transaction gains 50 table of contents and losses is the result of certain net receivables due from our foreign subsidiaries and customers being denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary, primarily the euro and singapore dollar. our foreign subsidiaries conduct their businesses in local currency. we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to six months in duration, to offset the foreign exchange risk on certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary. we considered the historical trends in currency exchange rates and determined that it was reasonably possible that adverse changes in exchange rates for all currencies could be experienced. the estimated impacts of a five or ten percent appreciation or depreciation in value are as follows: value of contracts given x% appreciation of foreign currency notional amount value of contracts given x% depreciation of foreign currency foreign forward exchange contracts 10% 5% (5)% (10)% (dollars in millions) purchased, march 28, 2014 $ 168 $ 161 $ 154 $ 146 $ 137 sold, march 28, 2014 $ 218 $ 228 $ 240 $ 252 $ 266 we do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative trading purposes, nor do we hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. item 8. financial statements and supplementary data annual financial statements the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures included in part iv, item 15 of this annual report are incorporated by reference into thisrisk factors 12 risk factors a description of the risk factors associated with our business is set forth below. the list is not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our common stock. a decrease in demand for our solutions could adversely affect our financial results. we are subject to fluctuations in demand for our solutions due to a variety of factors, including market transitions, general economic conditions, competition, product obsolescence, technological change, shifts in buying patterns, the timing and duration of hardware refresh cycles, financial difficulties and budget constraints of our current and potential customers, public awareness of security threats to it systems and other factors. while such factors may, in some periods, increase product sales, fluctuations in demand can also negatively impact our sales. if demand for our solutions declines, whether due to general economic conditions, a shift in buying patterns or otherwise, our revenues and margins would likely be adversely affected. fluctuations in our quarterly financial results have affected the trading price of our outstanding securities in the past and could affect the trading price of outstanding securities in the future. our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and are likely to vary in the future due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of our control. if our quarterly financial results or our predictions of future financial results fail to meet our expectations or the expectations of securities analysts and investors, the trading price of our outstanding securities could be negatively affected. volatility in our quarterly financial results may make it more difficult for us to raise capital in the future or pursue acquisitions. our operating results for prior periods may not be effective predictors of our future performance. factors associated with our industry, the operation of our business, and the markets for our solutions may cause our quarterly financial results to fluctuate, including: fluctuations in our revenue due to the transition of our sales contracts to a higher mix of products subject to ratable versus point-in-time revenue recognition; the timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria, particularly with regard to our enterprise sales transactions, as a result of our adoption of new revenue recognition accounting standards under asc 606 on march 31, 2018; fluctuations in demand for our solutions; entry of new competition into our markets; competitive pricing pressure for one or more of our classes of our solutions; 12 table of contents our ability to timely complete the release of new or enhanced versions of our solutions; the timing and extent of significant restructuring charges; the impact of acquisitions and our ability to achieve expected synergies; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; the number, severity, and timing of threat outbreaks (e.g. worms, viruses, malware, ransomware and other malicious threats) and cyber security incidents (e.g., large scale data breaches); our resellers making a substantial portion of their purchases near the end of each quarter; customers tendency to negotiate licenses and other agreements near the end of each quarter; cancellation, deferral, or limitation of orders by customers; changes in the mix or type of products and subscriptions sold; our ability to achieve targeted operating income and margins; movements in interest rates; the rate of adoption of new technologies and new releases of operating systems; changes in tax laws, rules, and regulations; weakness or uncertainty in general economic or industry conditions in any of the multiple markets in which we operate that could reduce customer demand and ability to pay for our solutions; political and military instability caused by war or other events, which could slow spending within our target markets, delay sales cycles, and otherwise adversely affect our ability to generate revenues and operate effectively; the timing of and rate and discounts at which customers replace older versions of our hardware products that reach end of life; and disruptions in our business operations or target markets caused by, among other things, terrorism or other intentional acts, outbreaks of disease, or earthquakes, floods, or other natural disasters. any of the foregoing factors could cause the trading price of our outstanding securities to fluctuate significantly. our business depends on customers renewing their arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud-based ( cloud ) offerings. a large portion of our revenue is derived from arrangements for maintenance, subscriptions, managed security services and cloud offerings, yet customers have no contractual obligation to purchase additional solutions after the initial subscription or contract period. our customers renewal rates, and our customer retention, may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their level of satisfaction with our solutions or our customer support, customer budgets and the pricing of our solutions compared with the solutions offered by our competitors, any of which may cause our revenue to grow more slowly than expected, or to decline. accordingly, we must invest significant time and resources in providing ongoing value to our customers. if these efforts fail, or if our customers do not renew for other reasons, or if they renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenue may decline and our business will suffer. matters relating to or arising from our audit committee investigation, including regulatory investigations and proceedings, litigation matters and potential additional expenses, may adversely affect our business and results of operations. as previously disclosed in our public filings, the audit committee of our board of directors (the audit committee ) has recently completed an internal investigation (the audit committee investigation ). in connection with the audit committee investigation, we voluntarily contacted the sec in may 2018. the sec commenced a formal investigation and we continue to cooperate with that investigation. 13 table of contents furthermore, if the sec commences legal action, we could be required to pay significant penalties and become subject to injunctions, a cease and desist order and other equitable remedies. the completion of the audit committee investigation and filing of delinquent periodic reports will not automatically resolve the sec investigation. we can provide no assurances as to the outcome of any governmental investigation. we have incurred, and may continue to incur, significant expenses related to legal, accounting, and other professional services in connection with the internal investigation and related legal matters. these expenses, the delay in timely filing our periodic reports, and the diversion of the attention of the management team that has occurred, and is expected to continue, has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business and financial condition. as a result of the matters reported above, we are exposed to greater risks associated with litigation, regulatory proceedings and government enforcement actions. in addition, securities class actions and other lawsuits have been filed against us, our directors and officers (see also, we are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings below). any future investigations or additional lawsuits may adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to pending securities class action and stockholder derivative legal proceedings that may adversely affect our business. several securities class action and derivative lawsuits were filed against us following our announcement on may 10, 2018 of the audit committee investigation, including an action brought derivatively on behalf of symantec 2008 employee stock purchase plan. in addition, we have received certain demands from purported stockholders to inspect corporate books and records under delaware law. no specific amounts of damages have been alleged in these lawsuits. we will continue to incur legal fees in connection with these pending cases, including expenses for the reimbursement of legal fees of present and former officers and directors under indemnification obligations. the expense of continuing to defend such litigation may be significant. we intend to defend these lawsuits vigorously, but there can be no assurance that we will be successful in any defense. if any of the lawsuits related to our audit committee investigation are decided adversely, we may be liable for significant damages directly or under our indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. further, the amount of time that will be required to resolve these lawsuits is unpredictable and these actions may divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could further adversely affect our business, results of operations and cash flows. we have not been in compliance with nasdaq requirements for continued listing and as a result our common stock may be delisted from trading on nasdaq, which would have a material effect on us and our stockholders. we were delinquent in the filing of our periodic reports with the sec and have delayed convening our 2018 annual meeting of stockholders (the annual meeting ), as a result of which we are not in compliance with listing requirements of the nasdaq stock market llc ( nasdaq ) listing rule 5250(c)(1), which requires timely filing of periodic financial reports with the sec. under nasdaq listing rules, we were permitted to submit to nasdaq a plan to regain compliance with the nasdaq listing rules. we previously submitted such a plan to the nasdaq staff, and nasdaq has granted us until november 26, 2018 to regain compliance. we expect to file our delinquent quarterly reports as promptly as practicable following this annual report filing, however there can be no guarantee that we will be able to file by november 26, 2018, in which case our common stock may again be subject to delisting by nasdaq. if our common stock is delisted, there can no assurance whether or when it would 14 table of contents again be listed for trading on nasdaq or any other exchange. if our common stock is delisted, the market price of our shares will likely decline and become more volatile, and our stockholders may find that their ability to trade in our stock will be adversely affected. furthermore, institutions whose charters do not allow them to hold securities in unlisted companies might sell our shares, which could have a further adverse effect on the price of our stock. the delayed filing of some of our periodic sec reports has made us currently ineligible to use a registration statement on form s-3 to register the offer and sale of securities, which could adversely affect our ability to raise future capital or complete acquisitions. as a result of the delayed filing of some of our periodic reports with the sec, we will not be eligible to register the offer and sale of our securities using a registration statement on form s-3 until november 2019 at the earliest. should we wish to register the offer and sale of our securities to the public prior to the time we are eligible to use form s-3, both our transaction costs and the amount of time required to complete the transaction could increase, making it more difficult to execute any such transaction successfully and potentially harming our financial condition. if we are unable to develop new and enhanced solutions that achieve widespread market acceptance, or if we are unable to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our existing solutions or adapt our business model to keep pace with industry trends, our competitive position may weaken and our business and operating results could be adversely affected. our future success depends on our ability to effectively respond to the rapidly changing needs of our customers, as well as competitive technological developments and industry changes by developing or introducing new and enhanced solutions on a timely basis. we have in the past incurred, and will continue to incur, significant research and development expenses as we strive to remain competitive. if we are unable to anticipate or react to competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken, and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business and operating results. additionally, we must continually address the challenges of dynamic and accelerating market trends and competitive developments, such as the emergence of advanced persistent threats in the security space, the continued decline in the pc market and the market shift towards mobility and the increasing transition towards cloud-based solutions, all of which continue to make it more difficult for us to compete effectively. for example, although we have been investing heavily in solutions that address the cloud security market, we cannot be certain that it will develop at a rate or in the manner we expect or that we will be able to compete successfully with new entrants or more established competitors. customers may require features and capabilities that our current solutions do not have. our failure to develop new solutions and improve our existing solutions that satisfy customer preferences and effectively compete with other market offerings in a timely and cost-effective manner may harm our ability to renew our subscriptions with existing customers and to create or increase demand for our solutions, which may adversely impact our operating results. the development and introduction of new solutions involves a significant commitment of time and resources and are subject to a number of risks and challenges including: lengthy development cycles; evolving industry standards and technological developments by our competitors and customers; evolving platforms, operating systems and hardware products, such as mobile devices, and related product and service interoperability challenges; entering into new or unproven markets; executing new product and service strategies; 15 table of contents trade compliance difficulties; developing or expanding efficient sales channels; and obtaining sufficient licenses to technology and technical access to operating system software. if we are not successful in managing these risks and challenges, or if our new or improved solutions are not technologically competitive or do not achieve market acceptance, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. if we are unable to attract and retain qualified employees, lose key personnel, fail to integrate replacement personnel successfully, or fail to manage our employee base effectively, we may be unable to develop new and enhanced solutions, effectively manage or expand our business, or increase our revenues. our future success depends upon our ability to recruit and retain key management, technical, sales, marketing, finance and other personnel. our officers and other key personnel are employees-at-will, and we cannot assure you that we will be able to retain them. competition for people with the specific skills that we require is significant, especially in and around our headquarters in silicon valley, and we face difficulties in attracting, retaining and motivating employees as a result. in order to attract and retain personnel in a competitive marketplace, we believe that we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash and equity-based compensation. additionally, changes in immigration laws could impair our ability to attract and retain highly qualified employees. if we fail to attract new personnel or fail to retain and motivate our current personnel, our business and future growth prospects could suffer. the volatility in our stock price may from time to time adversely affect our ability to recruit or retain employees. in addition, we may be unable to obtain required stockholder approvals of future increases in the number of shares required for issuance under our equity compensation plans. as a result, we may issue fewer equity-based incentives and may be impaired in our efforts to attract and retain necessary personnel. if we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees, or conversely, if we fail to manage employee performance or reduce staffing levels when required by market conditions, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. effective succession planning is also important to our long-term success. failure to ensure effective transfer of knowledge and smooth transitions involving key employees could hinder our strategic planning and execution. from time to time, key personnel leave our company. although we strive to reduce the negative impact of changes in our leadership, the loss of any key employee could result in significant disruptions to our operations, including adversely affecting the timeliness of product releases, the successful implementation and completion of company initiatives, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures, our internal control over financial reporting, and our results of operations. in addition, hiring, training, and successfully integrating replacement sales and other personnel could be time consuming and expensive, may cause additional disruptions to our operations, and may be unsuccessful, which could negatively impact future financial results. these risks may be exacerbated by the uncertainty associated with the acquisitions, divestitures and transitions we have experienced over the last few years. we operate in a highly competitive environment, and our competitors may gain market share in the markets for our solutions that could adversely affect our business and cause our revenues to decline. we operate in intensely competitive markets that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements and frequent new product introductions and improvements. if we are unable to anticipate or react to these competitive challenges or if existing or new competitors gain market share in any of our markets, our competitive position could weaken and we could experience a decline in our sales that could adversely affect our business 16 table of contents and operating results. to compete successfully, we must maintain an innovative research and development effort to develop new solutions and enhance our existing solutions, effectively adapt to changes in the technology or product rights held by our competitors, appropriately respond to competitive strategies and effectively adapt to technological changes and changes in the ways that our information is accessed, used and stored within our enterprise and consumer markets. if we are unsuccessful in responding to our competitors or to changing technological and customer demands, our competitive position and our financial results could be adversely affected. our competitors include software and cloud-based vendors that offer solutions that directly compete with our offerings. in addition to competing with these vendors directly for sales to end-users of our solutions, we compete with them for the opportunity to have our solutions bundled with the offerings of our strategic partners such as computer hardware oems and isps. our competitors could gain market share from us if any of these strategic partners replace our solutions with those of our competitors or if these partners more actively promote our competitors solutions than our own. in addition, software and cloud-based vendors who have bundled our solutions with theirs may choose to bundle their solutions with their own or other vendors solutions or may limit our access to standard interfaces and inhibit our ability to develop solutions for their platform. in the future, further product development by these vendors could cause our solutions to become redundant, which could significantly impact our sales and financial results. we face growing competition from network equipment, computer hardware manufacturers, large operating system providers and other technology companies, as well as from companies in the identity threat protection space such as credit bureaus. many of these competitors are increasingly developing and incorporating into their products data protection software that competes at some levels with our offerings. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive the functionality incorporated into these products as replacing the need for our solutions. security protection is also offered by some of our competitors at prices lower than our prices or, in some cases is offered free of charge. some companies offer lower-priced or free security products within their computer hardware or software products. our competitive position could be adversely affected to the extent that our customers perceive these lower cost or free security products as replacing the need for more effective, full featured solutions, such as those that we provide. the expansion of these competitive trends could have a significant negative impact on our sales and operating results by causing, among other things, price reductions of our solutions, reduced profitability and loss of market share. many of our competitors have greater financial, technical, sales, marketing or other resources than we do and consequently, may have the ability to influence customers to purchase their products instead of ours. further consolidation within our industry or other changes in the competitive environment could result in larger competitors that compete with us on several levels. we also face competition from many smaller companies that specialize in particular segments of the markets in which we compete. our cloud offerings present execution and competitive risks. our cloud offerings are critical to our business. our competitors are rapidly developing and deploying cloud offerings for consumers and business customers. pricing and delivery models are evolving. devices and form factors influence how users access services in the cloud. we have made and are continuing to make significant investments in, and devoting significant resources to develop and deploy, our own cloud strategies. we cannot assure you that our ongoing investments in and development of cloud offerings will achieve the expected returns for us or that we will be able to compete successfully in the marketplace. in addition to software development costs, we are incurring significant costs to build and maintain infrastructure to support cloud offerings. these costs may 17 table of contents reduce the operating margins we have previously achieved. whether we are successful in this business model depends on our execution in a number of areas, including: continuing to innovate and bring to market compelling cloud-based solutions that generate increasing traffic and market share; and ensuring that our cloud offerings meet the reliability expectations of our customers and maintain the security of their data. over the long term we intend to invest in research and development activities, and these investments may achieve delayed, or lower than expected, benefits which could harm our operating results. while we continue to focus on managing our costs and expenses, over the long term, we also intend to invest significantly in research and development activities as we focus on organic growth through internal innovation in each of our business segments. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position, and that the level of these investments will increase in future periods. we recognize the costs associated with these research and development investments earlier than the anticipated benefits, and the return on these investments may be lower, or may develop more slowly, than we expect. if we do not achieve the benefits anticipated from these investments, or if the achievement of these benefits is delayed, our operating results may be adversely affected. changes in industry structure and market conditions could lead to charges related to discontinuance of certain of our products or businesses and asset impairments. in response to changes in industry structure and market conditions, we may be required to strategically reallocate our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of or otherwise exiting certain businesses. any decision to limit investment in or dispose of or otherwise exit businesses may result in the recording of special charges, such as inventory and technology-related write-offs, workforce reduction costs, charges relating to consolidation of excess facilities or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of discontinued products. our estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions. although in certain instances our supply agreements allow us the option to cancel, reschedule and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed, our loss contingencies may include liabilities for contracts that we cannot cancel, reschedule or adjust with contract manufacturers and suppliers. further, our estimates relating to the liabilities for excess facilities are affected by changes in real estate market conditions. additionally, we are required to evaluate goodwill impairment on an annual basis and between annual evaluations in certain circumstances, and future goodwill impairment evaluations may result in a charge to earnings. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face, in addition to general and economic business conditions, can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain solutions or develop products or support offerings that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect our operating results. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. we or our competitors may bundle solutions for promotional purposes or as a long-term go-to-market or 18 table of contents pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our offerings. defects, disruptions or risks related to our cloud offerings could impair our ability to deliver our services and could expose us to liability, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise negatively impact our business. our cloud offerings may contain errors or defects that users identify after they begin using them that could result in unanticipated service interruptions, which could harm our reputation and our business. since our customers use our cloud offerings for mission-critical protection from threats to electronic information, endpoint devices, and computer networks, any errors, defects, disruptions in service or other performance problems with our cloud offerings could significantly harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. if any such performance problems occur, customers could elect not to renew, or delay or withhold payment to us, we could lose future sales or customers may make warranty or other claims against us, which could result in an increase in our provision for doubtful accounts or warranty, an increase in collection cycles for accounts receivable or the expense and risk of litigation. we currently serve our cloud-based customers from hosting facilities, including third-party hosting facilities, located across the globe. damage to, or failure of, any significant element of these hosting facilities could result in interruptions in our service, which could harm our customers and expose us to liability. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our solutions. interruptions or failures in our service delivery could cause customers to terminate their subscriptions with us, could adversely affect our renewal rates, and could harm our ability to attract new customers. our business would also be harmed if our customers believe that our cloud offerings are unreliable. our solutions are complex and operate in a wide variety of environments, systems, applications and configurations, which could result in failures of our solutions to function as designed. because we offer very complex solutions, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when solutions are first introduced or when new versions are released. our products are often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures in our solutions or may expose undetected errors, failures, or bugs in our solutions. our customers computing environments are often characterized by a wide variety of standard and non-standard configurations that make pre-release testing for programming or compatibility errors very difficult and time-consuming. in addition, despite testing by us and others, errors, failures, or bugs may not be found in new solutions or releases until after they are delivered to customers. in the past, we have discovered software errors, failures, and bugs in certain of our solutions after their introduction and, in some cases, have experienced delayed or lost revenues as a result of these errors. errors, failures, or bugs in solutions released by us could result in negative publicity, damage to our brand and reputation, returns, loss of or delay in market acceptance of our products, loss of competitive position, or claims by customers or others. many of our end-user customers use our solutions in applications that are critical to their businesses and may have a greater sensitivity to defects in our solutions than to defects in other, less critical, software products. in addition, if an actual or perceived breach of information integrity, security or availability occurs in one of our end-user customer systems, regardless of whether the breach is attributable to our products, the market perception of the effectiveness of our solutions could be harmed. alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures, our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, 19 table of contents delays, or cessation of our licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our operating results. our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems and website may be subject to intentional disruption that could adversely impact our reputation and future sales. despite our precautions and significant ongoing investments to protect against security risks, data protection breaches, cyber-attacks and other intentional disruptions of our solutions, we expect to be an ongoing target of attacks specifically designed to impede the performance and availability of our offerings and harm our reputation as a company. similarly, experienced computer programmers or other sophisticated individuals or entities may attempt to penetrate our network security or the security of our systems and website and misappropriate proprietary information or cause interruptions of our services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. while we invest and devote significant resources to maintain and continually enhance and update our methods to detect and alert us to such breaches, attacks and disruptions, these efforts may not be sufficient, even with rapid detection, to prevent the damage such a breach of our products, solutions, cloud offerings, systems, and website may cause. our inability to successfully recover from a disaster or other business continuity event could impair our ability to deliver our products and services and harm our business. we are heavily reliant on our technology and infrastructure to provide our products and services to our customers. for example, we host many of our products using third-party data center facilities and we do not control the operation of these facilities. these facilities are vulnerable to damage, interruption or performance problems from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunications failures and similar events. they are also subject to break-ins, computer viruses, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism and other misconduct. the occurrence of a natural disaster or an act of terrorism, a decision to close the facilities without adequate notice or other unanticipated problems could result in lengthy interruptions in the delivery of our products and services. furthermore, our business administration, human resources and finance services depend on the proper functioning of our computer, telecommunication and other related systems and operations. a disruption or failure of these systems or operations because of a disaster or other business continuity event could cause data to be lost or otherwise delay our ability to complete sales and provide the highest level of service to our customers. in addition, we could have difficulty producing accurate financial statements on a timely basis, which could adversely affect the trading value of our stock. although we endeavor to ensure there is redundancy in these systems and that they are regularly backed-up, there are no assurances that data recovery in the event of a disaster would be effective or occur in an efficient manner, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network. any errors, defects, disruptions or other performance problems with our products and services could harm our reputation and may damage our customers businesses. for example, we may experience disruptions, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website simultaneously, fraud or security attacks. in some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these performance problems within an acceptable period of time. interruptions in our products and services, including the operation of our global civilian cyber intelligence threat network, could impact our revenues or cause customers to cease doing business with us. in addition, our business would be harmed if any of events of this nature caused our customers and potential customers to believe our services are unreliable. our operations are dependent upon our ability to protect our technology infrastructure against damage from business 20 table of contents continuity events that could have a significant disruptive effect on our operations. we could potentially lose customer data or experience material adverse interruptions to our operations or delivery of services to our clients in a disaster recovery scenario. we collect, use, disclose, store or otherwise process personal information, which subjects us to privacy and data security laws and contractual commitments, and our actual or perceived failure to comply with such laws and commitments could harm our business. we collect, use, store or disclose (collectively, process ) an increasingly large amount of personal information, including from employees and customers, in connection with the operation of our business, particularly in relation to our identity and fraud protection offerings. we process an increasingly high volume, variety and velocity of personal information as a result of our identity and fraud protection offerings that rely on large data repositories of personal information and consumer transactions. the personal information we process is subject to an increasing number of federal, state, local and foreign laws regarding privacy and data security, as well as contractual commitments. any failure or perceived failure by us to comply with such obligations may result in governmental enforcement actions, fines, litigation, or public statements against us by consumer advocacy groups or others and could cause our customers to lose trust in us, which could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. additionally, changes to applicable privacy or data security laws could impact how we process personal information, and therefore limit the effectiveness of our solutions or our ability to develop new solutions. for example, the european union general data protection regulation, which becomes fully effective on may 25, 2018, imposes more stringent data protection requirements, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance of up to the greater of 20 million or four percent of worldwide annual revenues. our customers may also accidentally disclose their passwords or store them on a device that is lost or stolen, creating the perception that our systems are not secure against third-party access. additionally, third parties with whom we work, such as vendors or developers, may violate applicable laws or our policies and such violations can place personal information of our customers at risk. this could have an adverse effect on our reputation and business. in addition, such third parties could be the target of cyberattack and other data breaches which could impact our systems or our customers records. our acquisitions and divestitures create special risks and challenges that could adversely affect our financial results. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire or divest businesses or assets. these activities can involve a number of risks and challenges, including: complexity, time and costs associated with managing these transactions, including the integration of acquired business operations, workforce, products, it systems and technologies; diversion of management time and attention; loss or termination of employees, including costs associated with the termination or replacement of those employees; assumption of liabilities of the acquired business or assets, including litigation related to the acquired business or assets; the addition of acquisition-related debt; increased or unexpected costs and working capital requirements; dilution of stock ownership of existing stockholders; unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations; and substantial accounting charges for acquisition-related costs, amortization of intangible assets, and higher levels of stock-based compensation expense. 21 table of contents we have invested and continue to invest and devote significant resources in the integration of businesses we acquire, including our august 2016 acquisition of blue coat, inc. ( blue coat ) and february 2017 acquisition of lifelock, inc. ( life lock ). the success of each acquisition depends in part on our ability to realize the anticipated business opportunities, including certain cost savings and operational efficiencies or synergies and growth prospects from integrating these businesses in an efficient and effective manner. if integration of our acquired businesses is not successful, we may not realize the potential benefits of an acquisition or suffer other adverse effects. to integrate acquired businesses, we must integrate and manage the personnel and business systems of the acquired operations. we also must effectively integrate the different cultures of acquired business organizations into our own in a way that aligns various interests, and may need to enter new markets in which we have no or limited experience and where competitors in such markets have stronger market positions. moreover, to be successful, large complex acquisitions depend on large-scale product, technology and sales force integrations that are difficult to complete on a timely basis or at all, and may be more susceptible to the special risks and challenges described above. in addition, we have in the past, and may in the future, divest businesses, product lines or assets. for example, in january 2016 we completed the sale of veritas, and in october 2017 we divested our wss and pki solutions. these and similar initiatives may require significant separation activities that could result in the diversion of management time and attention, loss of employees, substantial separation costs and accounting charges for asset impairments. any of the foregoing, and other factors, could harm our ability to achieve anticipated levels of profitability or other financial benefits from our acquired or divested businesses, product lines or assets or to realize other anticipated benefits of divestitures or acquisitions. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels effectively, or if our partners choose not to market and sell our solutions to their customers, our operating results could be adversely affected. we sell our solutions to customers around the world through multi-tiered sales and distribution networks. sales through these different channels involve distinct risks, including the following: direct sales . a significant portion of our revenues from enterprise products is derived from sales by our direct sales force to end-users. risks associated with direct sales include: longer sales cycles associated with direct sales efforts; difficulty in hiring, retaining, and motivating our direct sales force, particularly through periods of transition in our organization; substantial amounts of training for sales representatives to become productive in selling our solutions, including regular updates to our products, and associated delays and difficulties in recognizing the expected benefits of investments in new products and updates; increased administrative costs in processing orders and increased credit risk in pursuing payment from each end user; and increased responsibility for custom and export activities that may result in added costs. indirect sales channels . a significant portion of our revenues is derived from sales through indirect channels, including distributors that sell our products to end-users and other resellers. this channel involves a number of risks, including: our resellers and distributors are generally not subject to minimum sales requirements or any obligation to market our solutions to their customers; 22 table of contents our reseller and distributor agreements are generally nonexclusive and may be terminated at any time without cause; our lack of control over the timing of delivery of our solutions to end-users; our resellers and distributors may violate applicable law or regulatory requirements or otherwise cause damage to our reputation through their actions; our resellers and distributors frequently market and distribute competing solutions and may, from time to time, place greater emphasis on the sale of these solutions due to pricing, promotions, and other terms offered by our competitors; and any consolidation of electronics retailers can continue to increase their negotiating power with respect to hardware and software providers such as us. oem sales channels. a portion of our revenues is derived from sales through our oem partners that incorporate our products into, or bundle our products with, their products. our reliance on this sales channel involves many risks, including: our lack of control over the volume of products delivered and the timing of such delivery; most of our oem partners are not subject to minimum sales requirements. generally our oem partners do not have any obligation to market our products to their customers; our oem partners may terminate or renegotiate their arrangements with us and new terms may be less favorable due to competitive conditions in our markets and other factors; sales through our oem partners are subject to changes in general economic conditions, strategic direction, competitive risks, and other issues that could result in a reduction of oem sales; the development work that we must generally undertake under our agreements with our oem partners may require us to invest significant resources and incur significant costs with little or no assurance of ever receiving associated revenues; the time and expense required for the sales and marketing organizations of our oem partners to become familiar with our solutions may make it more difficult to introduce those solutions to the market; and our oem partners may develop, market, and distribute their own solutions and market and distribute products of our competitors, which could reduce our sales. if we fail to manage our sales and distribution channels successfully, these channels may conflict with one another or otherwise fail to perform as we anticipate, which could reduce our sales and increase our expenses as well as weaken our competitive position. some of our distribution partners have experienced financial difficulties in the past, and if our partners suffer financial difficulties in the future because of general economic conditions or for other reasons, these partners may delay paying their obligations to us and we may have reduced revenues or collections that could adversely affect our operating results. in addition, reliance on multiple channels subjects us to events that could cause unpredictability in demand, which could increase the risk that we may be unable to plan effectively for the future, and could adversely affect our operating results. we face heightened regulation in our consumer digital safety segment, which could impede our ability to market and provide our solutions or adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations. we are subject to heightened regulation in our consumer digital safety segment as a result of the sale of our identity and information protection products, which we began selling at the end of fiscal 2017 as a result of our acquisition of lifelock , including a wide variety of federal, state, and local laws and regulations, including the fair credit reporting act, the gramm-leach-bliley act, the federal trade commission act ( ftc act ), and comparable state laws that are patterned after the ftc act. moreover, lifelock entered into consent decrees and similar arrangements with the federal trade 23 table of contents commission (the ftc ) and 35 states attorneys general in 2010, and a settlement with the ftc in 2015 relating to allegations that certain of lifelock advertising and marketing practices constituted deceptive acts or practices in violation of the ftc act, which impose additional restrictions on the lifelock business, including prohibitions against making any misrepresentation of the means, methods, procedures, effects, effectiveness, coverage, or scope of lifelock identity theft protection services. any of the laws and regulations that apply to our business are subject to revision or new or changed interpretations, and we cannot predict the impact of such changes on our business. additionally, the nature of our identity and information protection products subjects us to the broad regulatory, supervisory, and enforcement powers of the consumer financial protection bureau (cfpb) which may exercise authority with respect to our services, or the marketing and servicing of those services, by overseeing our financial institution or credit reporting agency customers and suppliers, or by otherwise exercising its supervisory, regulatory, or enforcement authority over consumer financial products and services. our international operations involve risks that could increase our expenses, adversely affect our operating results, and require increased time and attention of our management. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from customers located outside of the u.s. and we have significant operations outside of the u.s., including engineering, sales, customer support, and production. our international operations are subject to risks in addition to those faced by our domestic operations, including: potential loss of proprietary information due to misappropriation or laws that may be less protective of our intellectual property rights than u.s. laws or that may not be adequately enforced; requirements of foreign laws and other governmental controls, including tariffs, trade barriers and labor restrictions and related laws that reduce the flexibility of our business operations; potential changes in trade relations arising from policy initiatives or other political factors; regulations or restrictions on the use, import, or export of encryption technologies that could delay or prevent the acceptance and use of encryption products and public networks for secure communications; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the foreign corrupt practices act and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; central bank and other restrictions on our ability to repatriate cash from our international subsidiaries or to exchange cash in international subsidiaries into cash available for use in the u.s.; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, economic instability and inflationary conditions could reduce our customers ability to obtain financing for software products or could make our products more expensive or could increase our costs of doing business in certain countries; limitations on future growth or inability to maintain current levels of revenues from international sales if we do not invest sufficiently in our international operations; longer payment cycles for sales in foreign countries and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; difficulties in staffing, managing, and operating our international operations; difficulties in coordinating the activities of our geographically dispersed and culturally diverse operations; seasonal reductions in business activity in the summer months in europe and in other periods in other countries; costs and delays associated with developing software and providing support in multiple languages; and 24 table of contents political unrest, war, or terrorism, or regional natural disasters, particularly in areas in which we have facilities. a significant portion of our transactions outside of the u.s. is denominated in foreign currencies. accordingly, our revenues and expenses will continue to be subject to fluctuations in foreign currency rates. we have in the past and expect in the future to be affected by fluctuations in foreign currency rates, especially if international sales continue to grow as a percentage of our total sales or our operations outside the u.s. continue to increase. if we fail to accurately predict our manufacturing requirements and manage our supply chain we could incur additional costs or experience manufacturing delays that could harm our business. we generally provide forecasts of our requirements to our supply chain partners on a rolling basis. if our forecast exceeds our actual requirements, a supply chain partner may assess additional charges or we may have liability for excess inventory, each of which could negatively affect our gross margin. if our forecast is less than our actual requirements, the applicable supply chain partner may have insufficient time or components to produce or fulfill our product requirements, which could delay or interrupt manufacturing of our products or fulfillment of orders for our products, and result in delays in shipments, customer dissatisfaction, and deferral or loss of revenue. further, we may be required to purchase sufficient inventory to satisfy our future needs in situations where a component or product is being discontinued. if we fail to accurately predict our requirements, we may be unable to fulfill those orders or we may be required to record charges for excess inventory. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. we are dependent on original design manufacturers, contract manufacturers and third-party logistics providers to design and manufacture our hardware-based products and to fulfill orders for our hardware-based products. we depend primarily on original design manufacturers (each of which is a third-party original design manufacturer for numerous companies) to co-design and co-develop the hardware platforms for our products. we also depend on independent contract manufacturers (each of which is a third-party contract manufacturer for numerous companies) to manufacture and fulfill our hardware-based products. these supply chain partners are not committed to design or manufacture our products, or to fulfill orders for our products, on a long-term basis in any specific quantity or at any specific price. in addition, certain of our products or key components of our products are currently manufactured by a single third-party supplier. there are alternative suppliers that could provide components, as our agreements do not provide for exclusivity or minimum purchase quantities, but the transition and qualification from one supplier to another could be lengthy, costly and difficult. also, from time to time, we may be required to add new supply chain partner relationships or new manufacturing or fulfillment sites to accommodate growth in orders or the addition of new products. it is time consuming and costly to qualify and implement new supply chain partner relationships and new manufacturing or fulfillment sites, and such additions increase the complexity of our supply chain management. our ability to ship products to our customers could be delayed, and our business and results of operations could be adversely affected if we fail to effectively manage our supply chain partner relationships; if one or more of our original design manufacturers does not meet our development schedules; if one or more of our independent contract manufacturers experiences delays, disruptions or quality control problems in manufacturing our products; if one or more of our third-party logistics providers experiences delays or disruptions or otherwise fails to meet our fulfillment schedules; or if we are required to add or replace original design manufacturers, independent contract manufacturers, third-party logistics providers or fulfillment sites. 25 table of contents in addition, these supply chain partners have access to certain of our critical confidential information and could wrongly disclose or misuse such information or be subject to a breach or other compromise that introduces a vulnerability or other defect in the products manufactured by our supply chain partners. while we take precautions to ensure that hardware manufactured by our independent contractors is reviewed, any espionage acts, malware attacks, theft of confidential information or other malicious cyber incidents perpetrated either directly or indirectly through our independent contractors, may compromise our system infrastructure, expose us to litigation and associated expenses and lead to reputational harm that could result in a material adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. in addition, we are subject to risks resulting from the perception that certain jurisdictions, including china, do not comply with internationally recognized rights of freedom of expression and privacy and may permit labor practices that are deemed unacceptable under evolving standards of social responsibility. if manufacturing or logistics in these foreign countries is disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military or government actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, or political issues, or if the purchase or sale of products from such foreign countries is prohibited or disfavored, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected. if we do not protect our proprietary information and prevent third parties from making unauthorized use of our products and technology, our financial results could be harmed. most of our software and underlying technology is proprietary. we seek to protect our proprietary rights through a combination of confidentiality agreements and procedures and through copyright, patent, trademark and trade secret laws. however, these measures afford only limited protection and may be challenged, invalidated or circumvented by third parties. third parties may copy all or portions of our products or otherwise obtain, use, distribute, and sell our proprietary information without authorization. third parties may also develop similar or superior technology independently by designing around our patents. our shrink-wrap license agreements are not signed by licensees and therefore may be unenforceable under the laws of some jurisdictions. furthermore, the laws of some foreign countries do not offer the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as the laws of the u.s., and we may be subject to unauthorized use of our products in those countries. the unauthorized copying or use of our products or proprietary information could result in reduced sales of our products. any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in with a strategic partner or vendor could adversely affect our ability to access software, operating system, and hardware platforms of such partner or vendor, or cause such partner or vendor to choose not to offer our products to their customers. in addition, any legal action to protect proprietary information that we may bring or be engaged in, could be costly, may distract management from day-to-day operations, and may lead to additional claims against us, which could adversely affect our operating results. from time to time we are a party to lawsuits and investigations, which typically require significant management time and attention and result in significant legal expenses, and which could negatively impact our business, financial condition, results of operations, and cash flows. we have initiated and been named as a party to lawsuits, including patent litigation, class actions and governmental claims and we may be named in additional litigation. the expense of initiating and defending, and in some cases settling, such litigation may be costly and divert management attention from the day-to-day operations of our business, which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, and cash flows. in addition, an unfavorable outcome in such litigation could result in significant fines, settlements, monetary damages or injunctive relief that could negatively impact our ability to conduct our business, results of operations, and cash flows. 26 table of contents third parties claiming that we infringe their proprietary rights could cause us to incur significant legal expenses and prevent us from selling our products. from time to time, third parties may claim that we have infringed their intellectual property rights, including claims regarding patents, copyrights, and trademarks. because of constant technological change in the segments in which we compete, the extensive patent coverage of existing technologies, and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is possible that the number of these claims may grow. in addition, former employers of our former, current, or future employees may assert claims that such employees have improperly disclosed to us confidential or proprietary information of these former employers. any such claim, with or without merit, could result in costly litigation and distract management from day-to-day operations. if we are not successful in defending such claims, we could be required to stop selling, delay shipments of, or redesign our products, pay monetary amounts as damages, enter into royalty or licensing arrangements, or satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. we cannot assure you that any royalty or licensing arrangements that we may seek in such circumstances will be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. we have made and expect to continue making significant expenditures to investigate, defend and settle claims related to the use of technology and intellectual property rights as part of our strategy to manage this risk. in addition, we license and use software from third parties in our business. these third-party software licenses may not continue to be available to us on acceptable terms or at all, and may expose us to additional liability. this liability, or our inability to use any of this third-party software, could result in delivery delays or other disruptions in our business that could materially and adversely affect our operating results. changes to our effective tax rate could increase our income tax expense and reduce (increase) our net income (loss). our effective tax rate could be adversely affected by several factors, many of which are outside of our control, including: changes to the u.s. federal income tax laws, including impacts of the recently enacted tax cuts and jobs act (h.r.1) (the act ) and future interpretations of the act, the consequences of which have not yet been fully determined; changes to other tax laws, regulations, and interpretations in multiple jurisdictions in which we operate, including actions resulting from the organisation for economic co-operation and development base erosion and profit shifting project, proposed actions by international bodies, as well as the requirements of certain tax rulings; changes in the relative proportions of revenues and income before taxes in the various jurisdictions in which we operate that have differing statutory tax rates; the tax effects of purchase accounting for acquisitions and restructuring charges that may cause fluctuations between reporting periods; and tax assessments, or any related tax interest or penalties that could significantly affect our income tax expense for the period in which the settlements take place. we report our results of operations based on our determination of the aggregate amount of taxes owed in the tax jurisdictions in which we operate. from time to time, we receive notices that a tax authority in a particular jurisdiction believes that we owe a greater amount of tax than we have reported to such authority. we are regularly engaged in discussions and sometimes disputes with these tax authorities. if the ultimate determination of our taxes owed in any of these jurisdictions is for an amount in excess of the tax provision we have recorded or reserved for, our operating results, cash flows, and financial condition could be adversely affected. 27 table of contents we cannot predict our future capital needs and we may be unable to obtain financing, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. adverse economic conditions or a change in our business performance may make it more difficult to obtain financing for our operations, investing activities (including potential acquisitions or divestitures) or financing activities. any required financing may not be available on terms acceptable to us, or at all. if we raise additional funds by obtaining loans from third parties, the terms of those financing arrangements may include negative covenants or other restrictions on our business that could impair our financial or operational flexibility, and would also require us to fund additional interest expense. if additional financing is not available when required or is not available on acceptable terms, we may be unable to successfully develop or enhance our software and services through acquisitions in order to take advantage of business opportunities or respond to competitive pressures, which could have a material adverse effect on our software and services offerings, revenues, results of operations and financial condition. failure to maintain our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. our credit risk is evaluated by the major independent rating agencies, and such agencies have in the past and could in the future downgrade our ratings. we cannot assure you that we will be able to maintain our current credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under further review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position, ability to hedge certain financial risks and access to capital markets. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness that could adversely affect our financial condition. as of march 30, 2018, we had an aggregate of $5.1 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature in calendar years 2018 through 2025, including approximately $4.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of existing senior notes and $1.1 billion of outstanding term loans under our senior credit facilities, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future and/or enter into new financing arrangements. in addition, as of march 30, 2018, we had $1.0 billion available for borrowing under our revolving credit facility. our ability to meet expenses, to remain in compliance with the covenants under our debt instruments and to pay interest and repay principal for our substantial level of indebtedness depends on, among other things, our operating performance, competitive developments and financial market conditions, all of which are significantly affected by financial, business, economic and other factors. we are not able to control many of these factors. accordingly, our cash flow may not be sufficient to allow us to pay principal and interest on our debt, including the notes, and meet our other obligations. our substantial level of indebtedness could have important consequences, including the following: we must use a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to pay interest and principal on the term loans and revolving credit facility and our existing senior notes and other indebtedness, which reduces funds available to us for other purposes such as working capital, capital expenditures, other general corporate purposes and potential acquisitions; we may be unable to refinance our indebtedness or to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions or general corporate purposes; we are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates because borrowings under our senior credit facilities bear interest at variable rates; 28 table of contents our leverage may be greater than that of some of our competitors, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage and reduce our flexibility in responding to current and changing industry and financial market conditions; we may be more vulnerable to an economic downturn and adverse developments in our business; we may be unable to comply with financial and other covenants in our debt agreements, which could result in an event of default that, if not cured or waived, may result in acceleration of certain of our debt and would have an adverse effect on our business and prospects and could force us into bankruptcy or liquidation; and changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of our debt and and/or our common stock, adversely affect our access to debt markets, and increase the interest we pay on outstanding or future debt. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, we conduct a significant portion of our operations through our subsidiaries, which are generally not guarantors of our debt. accordingly, repayment of our indebtedness will be dependent in part on the generation of cash flow by our subsidiaries and their ability to make such cash available to us by dividend, debt repayment or otherwise. in general, our subsidiaries will not have any obligation to pay amounts due on our debt or to make funds available for that purpose. our subsidiaries may not be able to, or may not be permitted to, make distributions to enable us to make payments in respect of our indebtedness. each subsidiary is a distinct legal entity, and under certain circumstances legal and contractual restrictions may limit our ability to obtain cash from our subsidiaries. in the event that we do not receive distributions from our subsidiaries, we may be unable to make the required principal and interest payments on our indebtedness. our existing credit agreements impose operating and financial restrictions on us. the existing credit agreements contain covenants that limit our ability and the ability of our restricted subsidiaries to: incur additional debt; create liens on certain assets to secure debt; enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions; pay dividends on or make other distributions in respect of our capital stock or make other restricted payments; and consolidate, merge, sell or otherwise dispose of all or substantially all of our assets. all of these covenants may adversely affect our ability to finance our operations, meet or otherwise address our capital needs, pursue business opportunities, react to market conditions or otherwise restrict activities or business plans. a breach of any of these covenants could result in a default in respect of the related indebtedness. if a default occurs, the relevant lenders could elect to declare the indebtedness, together with accrued interest and other fees, to be immediately due and payable and, to the extent such indebtedness is secured in the future, proceed against any collateral securing that indebtedness. some of our products contain open source software, and any failure to comply with the terms of one or more of these open source licenses could negatively affect our business. certain of our products are distributed with software licensed by its authors or other third parties under so-called open source licenses, which may include, by way of example, the gnu general public license, gnu lesser general public license, the mozilla public license, the bsd license, and the apache license. 29 table of contents some of these licenses contain requirements that we make available source code for modifications or derivative works we create based upon the open source software, and that we license such modifications or derivative works under the terms of a particular open source license or other license granting third parties certain rights of further use. by the terms of certain open source licenses, we could be required to release the source code of our proprietary software if we combine our proprietary software with open source software in a certain manner. in addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties or controls on origin of the software. we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, including a review process for screening requests from our development organizations for the use of open source, but we cannot be sure that all open source is submitted for approval prior to use in our products. in addition, many of the risks associated with usage of open source cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect our business. our contracts with the u.s. government include compliance, audit and review obligations. any failure to meet these obligations could result in civil damages and/or penalties being assessed against us by the government. we sell products and services through government contracting programs directly and via partners, though we no longer hold a gsa contract. in the ordinary course of business, sales under these government contracting programs may be subject to audit or investigation by the u.s. government. noncompliance identified as a result of such reviews (as well as noncompliance identified on our own) could subject us to damages and other penalties, which could adversely affect our operating results and financial condition. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 49 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk we are exposed to various market risks related to fluctuations in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. we may use derivative financial instruments to mitigate certain risks in accordance with our investment and foreign exchange policies. we do not use derivatives or other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes. interest rate risk our short-term investments primarily consist of corporate bonds. an increase in interest could have an adverse impact on its market value. as of march 30, 2018, the fair value of our short-term investments was $388 million. a hypothetical increase in the corporate bonds yield curve of 50 basis points would not result in a significant reduction in fair value. as of march 30, 2018, we had $4.0 billion in aggregate principal amount of fixed-rate senior notes and convertible senior notes outstanding, with a carrying amount and a fair value of $3.9 billion, based on level 2 inputs. since these notes bear interest at fixed rates, they do not result in any financial statement risk associated with changes in interest rates. however, the fair value of these notes fluctuates when interest rates change. as of march 30, 2018, we also had $1.1 billion outstanding debt with variable interest rates based on the london interbank offered rate ( libor ). a reasonably possible hypothetical adverse change of 50 basis points in libor would not result in a significant increase in interest expense on an annualized basis. 49 table of contents in addition, we have a $1.0 billion revolving credit facility that if drawn bears interest at a variable rate based on libor and would be subject to the same risks associated with adverse changes in libor. foreign currency exchange rate risk we conduct business in numerous currencies through our worldwide operations and, as such, we are exposed to foreign currency risk. our entities conduct their businesses in the primary local currency in which they operate; however, they may also conduct business in other currencies. to the extent our entities hold monetary assets or liabilities, earn revenues or incur costs in currencies other than the entity functional currency, they are exposed to foreign exchange gains or losses and impacts to operating results as a result. as part of our foreign currency risk mitigation strategy, we have entered into foreign exchange forward contracts with up to six months in duration to help mitigate foreign exchange risk; however, we are not able to hedge our foreign currency exposure in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of the changes in foreign exchange rates. we have considered historical trends in exchange rates and determined that it is possible that adverse changes in exchange rates for any currency could occur. as of march 30, 2018 and march 31, 2017, we had open foreign currency forward contracts with notional amounts of $848 million and $696 million, respectively. a hypothetical ten percent depreciation of foreign currency would result in a reduction in fair value of $55 million and $29 million for fiscal 2018 and fiscal 2017, respectively. this analysis disregards the possibilities that the rates can move in opposite directions and that losses from one geographic area may be offset by gains from another geographic area. 50 table of contents