risk factors 16 risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this form 10-k in evaluating hewlett packard enterprise and its common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the combined and consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplemental data" of this form 10-k. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. we are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the market shift to cloud-related it infrastructure, software and services, and the growth in software-as-a-service ("saas") business models. certain of our legacy hardware businesses face challenges as customers migrate to cloud-based offerings and reduce their purchases of hardware products. additionally, our legacy software business derives a large portion of its revenues from upfront license sales, some of which over time can be expected to shift to saas. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the united states, central and eastern europe and russia, and certain countries in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given our large and diverse portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our application software and it infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. 16 table of contents we have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. in addition, the performance of our business critical systems business unit has been affected by the decline in demand for unix servers and concerns about the development of new versions of software to support our itanium-based products. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a new hybrid model of it delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated it solutions. to successfully execute this strategy, we must continue to pivot toward the delivery of integrated it solutions and continue to invest and expand in cloud computing, enterprise security, big data, applications and mobility. any 17 table of contents failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. for example, our success in our software segment is dependent on our ability to address the market shift to saas and other go-to-market execution challenges. to be successful in addressing these challenges, we must improve our go-to-market execution with multiple product delivery models, which better address customer needs and achieve broader integration across our overall product portfolio as we work to capitalize on important market opportunities in cloud computing, big data, enterprise security, applications and mobility. improvements in saas delivery, however, do not guarantee that we will achieve increased revenue or profitability. saas solutions often have lower margins than other software solutions throughout the subscription period and customers may elect to not renew their subscriptions upon expiration of their agreements with us. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other 18 table of contents costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa region, china and certain other high-growth markets. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products, services and solutions from 19 table of contents organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. sales outside the united states constituted approximately 61% of our net revenue in fiscal 2015. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("oems"); managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. 20 table of contents the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the "fcpa"). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency volatility also contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results as a consolidated subsidiary of hp co. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, particularly our services businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business 21 table of contents units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. see also the risk factor below entitled "we have no history of operating as an independent company and we expect to incur increased administrative and other costs following the separation by virtue of our status as an independent public company. our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results." we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to 22 table of contents anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the czech 23 table of contents republic, mexico, china and singapore. we also rely on major logistics hubs, primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be cancelled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). for example, in may 2015, we acquired aruba networks, inc., which provides next-generation network access solutions for mobile enterprise. also in may 2015, we announced a partnership with tsinghua holdings co., ltd. ("tsinghua"), the asset management arm of tsinghua university in china, pursuant to which we will sell to tsinghua a 51% interest in our wholly owned subsidiary that owns and operates h3c technologies and our china-based server, storage and technology services businesses for approximately $2.3 billion, subject to the terms and conditions of the share purchase agreement among tsinghua, tsinghua's subsidiary unispendour corporation and our subsidiary h3c holdings limited. the transaction with tsinghua is expected to close during the first quarter of fiscal 2016, subject to regulatory approvals and other closing conditions. 24 table of contents risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third parties or market trends. certain previous business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. 25 table of contents we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. for example, for fiscal 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our enterprise services segment. in addition, for fiscal 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated with autonomy. if there are future sustained decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings, including under the single new hewlett packard enterprise brand, and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish customer service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 26 table of contents persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have announced restructuring plans, including the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan (each as defined below), in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, including details regarding the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan, see note 3, "restructuring", to the combined and consolidated financial statements. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. for example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes 27 table of contents with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hewlett packard enterprise and its customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. the allocation of intellectual property rights that was made between hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. as part of the separation of the two entities, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could in the future adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hp co. allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. as a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hp inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, hewlett packard enterprise no longer has ownership of intellectual property allocated to hp inc. and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to 28 table of contents patent enforcement and patent licensing, our ability to sell our products or services and our competitive position in the industry. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our enterprise services business properly. the success of our es segment is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced processing volumes from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our it service agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it service agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could harm the financial performance of our it services business. some of our it outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed-upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing differs from our peer group outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could harm the financial performance of our it services business. if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our financial performance could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with 29 table of contents certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, our former parent has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our combined financial statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our combined financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." in addition, as discussed in note 17, "litigation and contingencies", to our combined and consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, if circumstances 30 table of contents change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. as of october 31, 2015, we had $27.6 billion of undistributed earnings from non-u.s. operations indefinitely reinvested outside of the united states. see note 6, "taxes on earnings", to our combined and consolidated financial statements. the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, there are proposals for tax legislation that have been introduced or that are being considered that could have a significant adverse effect on our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or it services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits 31 table of contents large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of outsourcing services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include 32 table of contents restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. in addition, our business is subject to laws addressing privacy and information security. in particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment in our big data offerings as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. if we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party claims. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. hewlett packard enterprise's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hewlett packard enterprise or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hewlett packard enterprise and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hewlett packard enterprise's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hewlett packard enterprise. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hewlett packard enterprise's performance also may affect the price of hewlett packard enterprise's stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, as discussed in note 17, "litigation and contingencies", to the combined and consolidated financial statements, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of additional securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. we currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services. despite these investment grade credit ratings, any 33 table of contents future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. in addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. this collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. in addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; 34 table of contents requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hewlett packard enterprise. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hewlett packard enterprise could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hewlett packard enterprise stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hewlett packard enterprise stock. risks related to the separation if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hewlett packard enterprise and those who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant tax liabilities, and, in certain circumstances, hewlett packard enterprise could be required to indemnify hp inc. for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. it was a condition to the distribution that our former parent receive (i) a private letter ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the "irs") and/or one or more opinions from its external tax advisors, regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and related transactions, and (ii) opinions of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. these opinions of outside counsel or other external tax advisors and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise (including those relating to the past and future conduct of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise). if, in the future, any of these facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if hp inc., as successor to hp co., or hewlett packard enterprise breach any of their respective covenants contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion, the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion may be rendered invalid. accordingly, notwithstanding hp co.'s receipt of the irs private letter ruling and/or opinions of counsel or other external tax advisors, the irs could determine that the distribution and certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which any opinion was based are false or have been violated. in addition, the irs private letter ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and an opinion of outside counsel or other external tax advisor represents the judgment of such counsel or advisor which is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by hp co. of the irs private letter ruling and the tax opinions referred to above, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the 35 table of contents irs were to prevail with such challenge, hp inc., hewlett packard enterprise and hp co. stockholders who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, is found to no longer qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hp inc. would recognize taxable gain as if it has sold the hewlett packard enterprise common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value and hp co. stockholders who received shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax matters agreement we entered into with hp inc. in connection with the separation (the "tax matters agreement"), we are generally required to indemnify hp inc. for any taxes resulting from the separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of hewlett packard enterprise, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by hewlett packard enterprise or (iii) any of the representations or undertakings of hewlett packard enterprise contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion being incorrect or violated. any such indemnity obligations could be material. in addition we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the separation, including non-u.s. tax costs resulting from separations in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions following the separation. to preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation and the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, for the two-year period following the separation, we are prohibited under the tax matters agreement, except in specific circumstances, from: (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the shares of our common stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds, (iii) repurchasing shares of our common stock other than in certain open-market transactions, (iv) ceasing to actively conduct certain of our businesses or (v) taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent the distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. these restrictions may limit for a period of time our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. we have no history of operating as an independent company and we expect to incur increased administrative and other costs following the separation by virtue of our status as an independent public company. our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical information about hewlett packard enterprise in this form 10-k refers to our business as formerly operated by and integrated with our former parent. our fourth quarter and fiscal year financial information included in this form 10-k does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors, among others: prior to the separation, our business was operated by our former parent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. our former parent or one of its 36 table of contents affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, internal auditing, human resources and corporate affairs, and also provided our it and other corporate infrastructure. our financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from our former parent for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. now that the separation is complete, our costs related to such functions previously performed by hp co. may increase. historically, when we were integrated with the other businesses of our former parent, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. although we have entered into certain agreements (including a transition services agreement) with hp inc. in connection with the separation, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with our former parent and may result in us paying higher charges than in the past for these services. this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of our former parent. in connection with the separation, we have entered into certain financing arrangements described under the section entitled "description of material indebtedness" as part of our transition to becoming a standalone company. we may in the future need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. the cost of capital for our business may be higher than our former parent's cost of capital prior to the separation. other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a separate company. for additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical combined and consolidated financial statements of our business, see "combined and consolidated financial statements," "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and the historical combined and consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this form 10-k. the separation and distribution agreement that we entered into with our former parent may limit our ability to compete in certain markets and may impose limitations on our recruiting efforts for a period of time following the separation. the separation and distribution agreement includes non-compete provisions pursuant to which we generally agree to not compete with hp inc. in certain product and service categories that comprise the hp inc. business, including personal computers and printers, worldwide for three years from the distribution date. such restrictions are subject to certain exceptions set forth in the separation and distribution agreement. in addition, the separation and distribution agreement contains (i) non-solicitation provisions preventing us from soliciting hp inc. employees to work for us for twelve months from the distribution date and (ii) no-hire provisions preventing us from hiring hp inc. employees for six months from the distribution date, in each case subject to certain exceptions. the foregoing restrictions may limit our ability to compete in certain markets and may impose limitations on our recruiting efforts. these factors could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. 37 table of contents hewlett packard enterprise or hp inc. may fail to perform under the transition services agreement and other transaction agreements executed as part of the separation, and we may not have necessary systems and services in place when these transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements, including among others a transition services agreement (the "transition services agreement"), the separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement (the "employee matters agreement"), a real estate matters agreement (the "real estate matters agreement"), a commercial agreement (the "master commercial agreement") and an it service agreement (the "information technology service agreement" or the "it service agreement"). the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a transition period after the separation. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the master commercial agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between hp inc. and us for the purchase and sale of commercially available products and services for internal use, incorporation and bundling in oem products and services, resale to customers and use in the provision of managed services to customers, as well as joint customer pursuits and joint development activities. the it service agreement provides for the performance by one of our subsidiaries of certain application development and maintenance and it infrastructure services for hp inc. we rely on hp inc. to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hp inc. is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its obligations with respect to the provision of transition services, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services in place once certain transition services expire, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. we are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services that hp inc. provides to us under the transition services agreement. however, we may not be successful in implementing these systems and services or in transitioning from hp inc.'s systems to our own systems, and may pay more for such systems and services that we pay under the transition services agreement. the separation may in the future result in disruptions to, and negatively impact our relationships with, our customers and other business partners. in addition, certain contracts that that needed to be assigned from hp inc. or its affiliates to hewlett packard enterprise in connection with the separation and required the consent of the counterparty to such an assignment have not, as yet, and failure to obtain these consents could increase our expenses or otherwise harm our business and financial performance. uncertainty related to the hewlett packard enterprise's position post-separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in our existing business relationships, or cause them to consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. these disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. in addition, the separation and distribution agreement provided for the assignment of a number of contracts from hp inc. or its affiliates to us or our affiliates. a minority of our customer contracts require the contractual counterparty's consent to assignment, a small number of which remain outstanding post-separation. if we are unable to obtain these consents, we may be unable to obtain some of the benefits, assets and contractual commitments that are intended to be allocated to us as 38 table of contents part of the separation. if we are unable to obtain these consents, the loss of these contracts could increase our expenses or otherwise reduce our profitability. indemnification liabilities to hp inc. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations generally designed to make us financially responsible for (i) liabilities primarily associated with our business; (ii) our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; (iii) any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by hp inc. for our benefit, unless related to liabilities primarily associated with the hp inc. business; (iv) any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and (v) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in our registration statement on form 10 or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or hewlett packard enterprise and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify hp inc. under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in connection with the separation, hp inc. has indemnified us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc.'s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements we have entered into with hp inc., hp inc. has agreed to indemnify hewlett packard enterprise for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that hp inc. has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from hp inc. will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc. will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, hp inc.'s insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hp inc. or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities as a result of our separation from our former parent. as a result of the separation from our former parent, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of our former parent have or may become our obligations. for example, under the code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent for that taxable period. consequently, if hp inc. is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a pre-separation period, we could be required to pay the amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to us under the tax matters agreement. 39 table of contents potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the separation and distribution, our former parent undertook several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. if, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the separation and distribution: was insolvent; was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution; had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. the court could then require our stockholders to return to hp inc. some or all of the shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock issued in the distribution, or require hp inc. or hewlett packard enterprise, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. the measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities, or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. 40 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 79 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2015 were the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and, from time to time, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisting primarily of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2015 and 2014, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2015 and 2014. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $21 million and $14 million at october 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap 76 table of contents transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments. we may also enter into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2015 and 2014, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2015 and 2014. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $52 million and $7 million at october 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. 77 table of contentsrisk factors 13 risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this form 10-k in evaluating hewlett packard enterprise and its common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplemental data" of this form 10-k. risks related to our business if we are unsuccessful at addressing our business challenges, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected and our ability to invest in and grow our business could be limited. we are in the process of addressing many challenges facing our business. one set of challenges relates to dynamic and accelerating market trends, such as the market shift to cloud-related it infrastructure, software and services, and the growth in software-as-a-service ("saas") business models. certain of our legacy hardware businesses face challenges as customers migrate to cloud-based offerings and reduce their purchases of hardware products. additionally, our legacy software business derives a large portion of its revenues from upfront license sales, some of which over time can be expected to shift to saas. a second set of challenges relates to changes in the competitive landscape. our major competitors are expanding their product and service offerings with integrated products and solutions; our business-specific competitors are exerting increased competitive pressure in targeted areas and are entering new markets; our emerging competitors are introducing new technologies and business models; and our alliance partners in some businesses are increasingly becoming our competitors in others. a third set of challenges relates to business model changes and our go-to-market execution. for example, we may fail to develop innovative products and services, maintain the manufacturing quality of our products, manage our distribution network or successfully market new products and services, any of which could adversely affect our business and financial condition. in addition, we are facing a series of significant macroeconomic challenges, including weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the united states, central and eastern europe and russia, and certain countries in asia. we may experience delays in the anticipated timing of activities related to our efforts to address these challenges and higher than expected or unanticipated execution costs. in addition, we are vulnerable to increased risks associated with our efforts to address these challenges given our large and diverse portfolio of businesses, the broad range of geographic regions in which we and our customers and partners operate, and the ongoing integration of acquired businesses. if we do not succeed in these efforts, or if these efforts are more costly or time-consuming than expected, our business and results of operations may be adversely affected, which could limit our ability to invest in and grow our business. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our application software and it infrastructure offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better 13 table of contents pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. in addition, the performance of our business critical systems business unit has been affected by the decline in demand for unix servers and concerns about the development of new versions of software to support our itanium-based products. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of hardware, software and services as we adapt to a new hybrid model of it delivery and consumption driven by the growing adoption of cloud computing and increased demand for integrated it solutions. to successfully execute this strategy, we must continue to pivot toward the delivery of integrated it solutions and continue to invest and expand in cloud computing, enterprise security, big data, applications and mobility. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. for example, our success in our software segment is dependent on our ability to address the market shift to saas and other go-to-market execution challenges. to be successful in addressing these challenges, we must improve our go-to-market execution with multiple product delivery models, which better address customer needs and achieve broader integration across our overall product portfolio as we work to capitalize on important market opportunities in cloud computing, big data, enterprise security, applications and mobility. improvements in saas delivery, however, do not guarantee that we will achieve increased revenue or profitability. saas solutions often have lower margins than other software solutions throughout the subscription period and customers may elect to not renew their subscriptions upon expiration of their agreements with us. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory 14 table of contents performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. recent global, regional and local economic weakness and uncertainty could adversely affect our business and financial performance. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. recent economic weakness and uncertainty in various markets throughout the world have resulted, and may result in the future, in decreased revenue, gross margin, earnings or growth rates and in increased expenses and difficulty in managing inventory levels. for example, we are continuing to experience macroeconomic weakness across many geographic regions, particularly in the europe, the middle east and africa region, china and certain other high-growth markets. ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may continue to reduce demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. 15 table of contents economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our business and financial performance. sales outside the united states constituted approximately 61% of our net revenue in fiscal 2016. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("oems"); managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the "fcpa"). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations and the related european financial restructuring efforts may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate. currency volatility also contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. for example, in the event that one or more european countries were to replace the euro with another currency, our sales into such countries, or into europe generally, would likely be adversely affected until stable exchange rates are established. accordingly, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely 16 table of contents affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results as a consolidated subsidiary of hp co. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, particularly our services businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. certain segments have a higher fixed cost structure and more variation in gross margins across their business units and product portfolios than others and may therefore experience significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. see also the risk factor below entitled "we have limited history of operating as an independent company and we expect to incur increased administrative and other costs following the separation by virtue of our status as an independent public company. our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results." we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot 17 table of contents adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the czech republic, mexico, china and singapore. we also rely on major logistics hubs, primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. 18 table of contents our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our segments, our quarterly sales often have reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be cancelled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). for example, in may 2015, we acquired aruba networks, inc., which provides next-generation network access solutions for mobile enterprise. in may 2016, we completed the sale to tsinghua holdings co., ltd. ("tsinghua"), the asset management arm of tsinghua university in china, of a 51% interest in our wholly owned subsidiary that owns and operates h3c technologies and our china-based server, storage and technology services businesses for approximately $2.6 billion. see also the risk factors below under the heading risks related to the proposed separation of our enterprise services business and our software segment risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third parties or market trends. certain previous business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. 19 table of contents in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. for example, for fiscal 2012, we recorded an $8.0 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill associated with our enterprise services reporting unit within our enterprise services segment. in addition, for fiscal 2012, we recorded an $8.8 billion impairment charge relating to the goodwill and intangible assets associated with autonomy. if there are future sustained decreases in our stock price or significant changes in the business climate or results of operations of our reporting units, we may incur additional charges, which may include goodwill impairment or intangible asset charges. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings, including under the single new hewlett packard enterprise brand, and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish customer service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; 20 table of contents persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have announced restructuring plans, including the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan (each as defined below), in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of our restructuring, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, including details regarding the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan, see note 3, "restructuring", to the consolidated and combined financial statements. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. for example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. 21 table of contents third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hewlett packard enterprise and its customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. the allocation of intellectual property rights that was made between hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. as part of the separation of the two entities, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could in the future adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hp co. allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. as a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hp inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, hewlett packard enterprise no longer has ownership of intellectual property allocated to hp inc. and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement and patent licensing, our ability to sell our products or services and our competitive position in the industry. our business and financial performance could suffer if we do not manage the risks associated with our enterprise services business properly. the success of our es segment is to a significant degree dependent on our ability to retain our significant services clients and maintain or increase the level of revenues from these clients. we may lose clients due to their merger or acquisition, business failure, contract expiration or their selection of a competing service provider or decision to in-source services. in addition, we may not be able to retain or renew relationships with our significant clients. as a result of business downturns or for other business reasons, we are also vulnerable to reduced processing volumes from our clients, which can reduce the scope of services provided and the prices for those services. we may not be able to replace the revenue and earnings from any such lost clients or reductions in services. in addition, our contracts may allow a client to terminate the contract for convenience, and we may not be able to fully recover our investments in such circumstances. the pricing and other terms of some of our it service agreements, particularly our long-term it outsourcing services agreements, require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts that could differ from actual results. any increased or unexpected costs or unanticipated delays in connection with the performance of these engagements, including delays caused by factors outside our control, could make these agreements less profitable or unprofitable, which could have an adverse effect on the profit margin of our it services business. some of our it service agreements require significant investment in the early stages that is expected to be recovered through billings over the life of the agreement. these agreements often involve the construction of new it systems and communications networks and the development and deployment of new technologies. substantial performance risk exists in each agreement with these characteristics, and some or all elements of service delivery under these agreements are dependent upon successful completion of the development, construction and deployment phases. any failure to perform satisfactorily under these agreements may expose us to legal liability, result in the loss of customers and harm our reputation, which could harm the financial performance of our it services business. some of our it outsourcing services agreements contain pricing provisions that permit a client to request a benchmark study by a mutually acceptable third party. the benchmarking process typically compares the contractual price of our services against the price of similar services offered by other specified providers in a peer comparison group, subject to agreed-upon adjustment and normalization factors. generally, if the benchmarking study shows that our pricing differs from our peer group 22 table of contents outside a specified range, and the difference is not due to the unique requirements of the client, then the parties will negotiate in good faith appropriate adjustments to the pricing. this may result in the reduction of our rates for the benchmarked services performed after the implementation of those pricing adjustments, which could harm the financial performance of our it services business. if we do not hire, train, motivate and effectively utilize employees with the right mix of skills and experience in the right geographic regions to meet the needs of our services clients, our financial performance could suffer. for example, if our employee utilization rate is too low, our profitability and the level of engagement of our employees could suffer. if that utilization rate is too high, it could have an adverse effect on employee engagement and attrition and the quality of the work performed, as well as our ability to staff projects. if we are unable to hire and retain a sufficient number of employees with the skills or backgrounds to meet current demand, we might need to redeploy existing personnel, increase our reliance on subcontractors or increase employee compensation levels, all of which could also negatively affect our profitability. in addition, if we have more employees than we need with certain skill sets or in certain geographies, we may incur increased costs as we work to rebalance our supply of skills and resources with client demand in those geographies. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, our former parent has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our combined financial statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our combined financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." in addition, as discussed in note 17, "litigation and contingencies", to our consolidated and combined financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, if circumstances change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. as of october 31, 2016, we had $26.2 billion of undistributed earnings from non-u.s. operations indefinitely reinvested outside of the united states. see note 6, "taxes on earnings", to our consolidated and combined financial statements. the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which are 23 table of contents predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, there are proposals for tax legislation that have been introduced or that are being considered that could have a significant adverse effect on our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or it services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. experienced computer programmers and hackers may be able to penetrate our network security and misappropriate or compromise our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. computer programmers and hackers also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including "bugs" and other problems that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our outsourcing services business routinely processes, stores and transmits large amounts of data for our clients, including sensitive and personally identifiable information. breaches of our security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of outsourcing services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. 24 table of contents terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. in addition, our business is subject to laws addressing privacy and information security. in particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment in our big data offerings as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. if we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party claims. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. hewlett packard enterprise's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hewlett packard enterprise or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hewlett packard enterprise and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hewlett packard enterprise's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hewlett packard enterprise. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hewlett packard enterprise's performance also may affect the price of hewlett packard 25 table of contents enterprise's stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. in addition, as discussed in note 17, "litigation and contingencies", to the consolidated and combined financial statements, we are involved in several securities class action litigation matters. additional volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of additional securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. we currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services. despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. in addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. this collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. in addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. 26 table of contents these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hewlett packard enterprise. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hewlett packard enterprise could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hewlett packard enterprise stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hewlett packard enterprise stock. risks related to the proposed separation of our enterprise services business and our software segment each of the proposed separation of our enterprise services business and subsequent merger with csc, and the proposed separation of our software segment and subsequent merger with micro focus, may not be consummated as or when planned or at all, and may not achieve the intended benefits. the proposed separation of each of (i) our enterprise services business, including the distribution of the shares of everett spinco. inc. (the subsidiary to which the enterprise services business will be transferred, or "everett spinco") common stock to our stockholders and subsequent merger of a wholly-owned subsidiary of everett spinco with computer sciences corporation ( csc" and such transactions, the es separation ) and (ii) our software segment, including the distribution of the shares of seattle spinco inc. (the subsidiary to which the software segment will be transferred, or "seattle spinco") common stock to our stockholders and subsequent merger of seattle spinco with a wholly-owned subsidiary of micro focus international plc ( micro focus and such transactions, the software separation ), may not be consummated as currently contemplated or at all, or may encounter unanticipated delays or other roadblocks, including delays in obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. in addition, either or both of the es separation and the software separation (together, the business separations ) could create unanticipated difficulties for our business, including in our enterprise services business or relating to our software segment prior to their consummation. planning and executing the proposed separation, distribution and subsequent merger for each of the business separations will require significant time, effort, and expense, and may divert the attention of our management and employees from other aspects of our business operations, and any delays in the completion of either or both of the proposed business separations may increase the amount of time, effort, and expense that we devote to such transactions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will be able to complete either or both of the business separations on the terms currently contemplated or at all. disruptions in general market conditions or in the enterprise services business or with respect to our software segment could affect our ability to complete the business separations. the proposed business separations are also subject to numerous closing conditions, including, among others, approval of the issuance of the csc common stock by the requisite vote of csc's stockholders (in the case of the es separation) and approval of the issuance of the micro focus ordinary shares by the requisite vote of micro focus's shareholders (in the case of the software separation); the effectiveness of csc's registration statement registering the csc common stock to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement with csc (in the case of the es separation) and the effectiveness of micro focus's registration statement registering the micro focus american depositary shares to be issued pursuant to the merger agreement with micro focus (in the case of the software separation); the expiration of the applicable waiting period under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, the receipt of certain required foreign antitrust approvals, and a cash dividend payment to us which is expected to be financed through borrowing, in the case of each of the business separations. in addition, if we complete the proposed business separations, there can be no assurance that we will be able to realize the intended benefits of the transactions or that the combined company resulting from either of the business separations will perform as anticipated. specifically, the proposed business separations could cause disruptions in our remaining businesses, the enterprise services business and csc's business, or seattle spinco and micro focus's business, including by disrupting operations or causing customers to delay or to defer decisions to purchase products, renew contracts, or to end their relationships. similarly, it is possible that current or prospective employees of, or providing services to, the enterprise services business, csc, the software segment, or micro focus could experience uncertainty about their future roles with the combined companies that will result from each separation, as applicable, which could harm the ability of the enterprise services business, csc, seattle spinco or micro focus to attract and retain key personnel. any of the foregoing could adversely affect our remaining businesses following the completion of the business separations, or the business, financial condition or results of operations of csc or the enterprise services business, or of micro focus or the software segment. in addition, csc and the enterprise services business or micro focus and the seattle spinco could face difficulties in integrating their businesses, or csc or micro focus could face difficulties in its business generally; as a result, our stockholders may not receive benefits or value in excess of the benefits and value that might have been created or realized had we retained the enterprise services business or the software segment, respectively. 27 table of contents the stock distribution in either or both of the business separations could result in significant tax liability, and csc or micro focus (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. each of the business separations is conditioned on the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ); and (ii) the relevant merger as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. each opinion of outside counsel will be based upon and rely on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, everett spinco and csc, or us, seattle spinco and micro focus, as applicable. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the internal revenue service (the irs ) could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs and there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert a contrary position. if the distribution of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive everett spinco shares or seattle spinco shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax matters agreement entered into by us with everett spinco and csc, and to be entered into by us with seattle spinco and micro focus, everett spinco and seattle spinco generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable. any such indemnity obligations could be material. risks related to the prior separation from former parent if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hewlett packard enterprise and those who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant tax liabilities, and, in certain circumstances, hewlett packard enterprise could be required to indemnify hp inc. for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. it was a condition to the distribution that our former parent receive (i) a private letter ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the "irs") and/or one or more opinions from its external tax advisors, regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and related transactions, and (ii) opinions of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. these opinions of outside counsel or other external tax advisors and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise (including those relating to the past and future conduct of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise). if, in the future, any of these facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if hp inc., as successor to hp co., or hewlett packard enterprise breach any of their respective covenants contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion, the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion may be rendered invalid. accordingly, notwithstanding hp co.'s receipt of the irs private letter ruling and/or opinions of counsel or other external tax advisors, the irs could determine that the distribution and certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which any opinion was based are false or have been violated. in addition, the irs private letter ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and an opinion of outside counsel or other external tax advisor represents the judgment of such counsel or advisor which is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by hp co. of the irs private letter ruling and the tax opinions referred to above, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax 28 table of contents purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the irs were to prevail with such challenge, hp inc., hewlett packard enterprise and hp co. stockholders who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, is found to no longer qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hp inc. would recognize taxable gain as if it has sold the hewlett packard enterprise common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value and hp co. stockholders who received shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax matters agreement we entered into with hp inc. in connection with the separation (the "tax matters agreement"), we are generally required to indemnify hp inc. for any taxes resulting from the separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of hewlett packard enterprise, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by hewlett packard enterprise or (iii) any of the representations or undertakings of hewlett packard enterprise contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion being incorrect or violated. any such indemnity obligations could be material. in addition we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the separation, including non-u.s. tax costs resulting from separations in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. we may not be able to engage in desirable strategic or capital-raising transactions following the separation. to preserve the tax-free treatment of the separation and the distribution for u.s. federal income tax purposes, for the two year period following the separation, we are prohibited under the tax matters agreement, except in specific circumstances, from: (i) entering into any transaction pursuant to which all or a portion of the shares of our common stock would be acquired, whether by merger or otherwise, (ii) issuing equity securities beyond certain thresholds, (iii) repurchasing shares of our common stock other than in certain open-market transactions, (iv) ceasing to actively conduct certain of our businesses or (v) taking or failing to take any other action that would prevent the distribution and certain related transactions from qualifying as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. these restrictions may limit for a period of time our ability to pursue certain strategic transactions, equity issuances or repurchases or other transactions that we may believe to be in the best interests of our stockholders or that might increase the value of our business. we have limited history of operating as an independent company and we expect to incur increased administrative and other costs following the separation by virtue of our status as an independent public company. our historical financial information is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical information about hewlett packard enterprise relating to fiscal years prior to fiscal 2016 in this form 10-k refers to our business as formerly operated by and integrated with our former parent, and does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the periods presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors, among others: prior to the separation, our business was operated by our former parent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. our former parent or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, internal auditing, human resources and corporate affairs, and also provided our it and other corporate infrastructure. our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from our former parent for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. now that the separation is complete, our costs related to such functions previously performed by hp co. may increase. historically, when we were integrated with the other businesses of our former parent, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. although we have entered into certain agreements (including a transition services agreement) with hp inc. in connection with the separation, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with our former parent and may result in us paying higher charges than in the past for these services. this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. 29 table of contents generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, have historically been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of our former parent. in connection with the separation, we have entered into certain financing arrangements described under the section entitled "description of material indebtedness" as part of our transition to becoming a standalone company. we may in the future need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. the cost of capital for our business may be higher than our former parent's cost of capital prior to the separation. other significant changes may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a separate company. for additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical consolidated and combined financial statements of our business, see "consolidated and combined financial statements," "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and the historical consolidated and combined financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this form 10-k. the separation and distribution agreement that we entered into with our former parent may limit our ability to compete in certain markets and may impose limitations on our recruiting efforts for a period of time following the separation. the separation and distribution agreement includes non-compete provisions pursuant to which we generally agree to not compete with hp inc. in certain product and service categories that comprise the hp inc. business, including personal computers and printers, worldwide for three years from the distribution date. such restrictions are subject to certain exceptions set forth in the separation and distribution agreement. these restrictions may limit our ability to compete in certain markets, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. hewlett packard enterprise or hp inc. may fail to perform under the transition services agreement and other transaction agreements executed as part of the separation, and we may not have necessary systems and services in place when these transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements, including among others a transition services agreement (the "transition services agreement"), the separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement (the "employee matters agreement"), a real estate matters agreement (the "real estate matters agreement"), a commercial agreement (the "master commercial agreement") and an it service agreement (the "information technology service agreement" or the "it service agreement"). the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a transition period after the separation. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the master commercial agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between hp inc. and us for the purchase and sale of commercially available products and services for internal use, incorporation and bundling in oem products and services, resale to customers and use in the provision of managed services to customers, as well as joint customer pursuits and joint development activities. the it service agreement provides for the performance by one of our subsidiaries of certain application development and maintenance and it infrastructure services for hp inc. we rely on hp inc. to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hp inc. is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its obligations with respect to the provision of transition services, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, if we do not have in place our own systems and services, or if we do not have agreements with other providers of these services in place once certain transition services expire, we may not be able to operate our business effectively and our profitability may decline. we are in the process of creating our own, or engaging third parties to provide, systems and services to replace many of the systems and services that hp inc. provides to us under the transition services agreement. however, we may not be successful in implementing these systems and services or in transitioning from hp inc.'s systems to our own systems, and may pay more for such systems and services that we pay under the transition services agreement. the separation may in the future result in disruptions to, and negatively impact our relationships with, our customers and other business partners. in addition, certain contracts that that needed to be assigned from hp inc. or its affiliates to hewlett packard enterprise in connection with the separation and required the consent of the counterparty to such an assignment have not, as yet, and failure to obtain these consents could increase our expenses or otherwise harm our business and financial performance. 30 table of contents uncertainty related to the hewlett packard enterprise's position post-separation may lead customers and other parties with which we currently do business or may do business in the future to terminate or attempt to negotiate changes in our existing business relationships, or cause them to consider entering into business relationships with parties other than us. these disruptions could have a material and adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition, results of operations and prospects. in addition, the separation and distribution agreement provided for the assignment of a number of contracts from hp inc. or its affiliates to us or our affiliates. a minority of our customer contracts require the contractual counterparty's consent to assignment, a small number of which remain outstanding post-separation. if we are unable to obtain these consents, we may be unable to obtain some of the benefits, assets and contractual commitments that are intended to be allocated to us as part of the separation. if we are unable to obtain these consents, the loss of these contracts could increase our expenses or otherwise reduce our profitability. indemnification liabilities to hp inc. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations generally designed to make us financially responsible for (i) liabilities primarily associated with our business; (ii) our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; (iii) any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by hp inc. for our benefit, unless related to liabilities primarily associated with the hp inc. business; (iv) any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and (v) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in our registration statement on form 10 or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or hewlett packard enterprise and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify hp inc. under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. in connection with the separation, hp inc. has indemnified us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc.'s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements we have entered into with hp inc., hp inc. has agreed to indemnify hewlett packard enterprise for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that hp inc. has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from hp inc. will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc. will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, hp inc.'s insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hp inc. or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities as a result of our separation from our former parent. as a result of the separation from our former parent, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of our former parent have or may become our obligations. for example, under the code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent for that taxable period. consequently, if hp inc. is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a pre-separation period, we could be required to pay the amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to us under the tax matters agreement. potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the separation and distribution, our former parent undertook several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. if, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the separation and distribution: 31 table of contents was insolvent; was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution; had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. the court could then require our stockholders to return to hp inc. some or all of the shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock issued in the distribution, or require hp inc. or hewlett packard enterprise, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. the measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities, or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. 32 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 64 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 70 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2016 were the euro, british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi), and japanese yen. for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and, from time to time, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2016 and 2015, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2016 and 2015. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $47 million and $21 million at october 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments, by entering into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2016 and 2015, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2016 and 2015. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our 64 table of contents debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $39 million and $52 million at october 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 65 table of contentsrisk factors 11 patents our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. at present, our worldwide patent portfolio includes approximately 11,000 patents. patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. as our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. no single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. in addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. we have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. these license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. for a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "risk factors our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and " our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in item 1a. 6 table of contents backlog we believe that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects due to our diverse product and service portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. seasonality general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. from time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. for example, european sales are often weaker in the summer months. see item 1a, "risk factors our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable." competition we have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise it infrastructure products, solutions and services. we encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our it infrastructure offerings. the markets in which we compete are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, periodically enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. in addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including oems that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. the competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: enterprise group. eg operates in the highly competitive enterprise technology infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors include technology vendors such as dell technologies inc., cisco systems, inc., netapp, inc., lenovo group ltd., international business machines corporation, huawei technologies co. ltd., amazon.com, inc., oracle corporation, fujitsu limited, juniper networks, inc., inspur co., ltd., hitachi ltd., extreme networks, inc., pure storage, inc., vmware, nutanix, inc., google inc., and rackspace inc. in certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. financial services. in our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, mainly ibm global financing, as well as banks and other financial institutions. we believe our competitive advantage over banks and other financial institutions in our financing business is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. for a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "risk factors we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in item 1a. environment our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products and in some cases, laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. some of our products and services also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. in addition, we face increasing complexity 7 table of contents in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. we are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). in the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. our operations, services and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. as these laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. however, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. we are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. we meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. employees we had approximately 66,000 employees as of october 31, 2017. additional information intel , itanium , and intel itanium are trademarks of intel corporation in the united states and other countries. amd is a trademark of advanced micro devices, inc. executive officers the following are our current executive officers: margaret c. whitman; age 61; chief executive officer ms. whitman has served as chief executive officer of hewlett packard enterprise since june 2017. prior to that, ms. whitman served as president and chief executive officer from november 2015 to june 2017. prior to that, ms. whitman served as president, chief executive officer, and chairman of hp co. from july 2014 to november 2015 and president and chief executive officer of hp co. from september 2011 to november 2015. from march 2011 to september 2011, ms. whitman served as a part-time strategic advisor to kleiner perkins caufield &amp; byers, a private equity firm. previously, ms. whitman served as president and chief executive officer of ebay inc., an online marketplace, from 1998 to 2008. ms. whitman also serves as a director of the procter &amp; gamble company, a consumer goods company, and of dxc technology company, an it services company, and is a former director of both zipcar, inc., a car sharing service, and hp inc. antonio neri; age 50; president mr. neri has served as president at hewlett packard enterprise since june 2017. prior to that, mr. neri served as executive vice president and general manager, enterprise group from november 2015 to june 2017. prior to that, mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager, enterprise group at hp co. from october 2014 to november 2015. previously, he served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp servers business unit from september 2013 to october 2014 and concurrently as senior vice president and general manager of the hp networking business unit from may 2014 to october 2014. prior to that, mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp technology services business unit from august 2011 to september 2013 and as senior vice president, customer services for the hp personal systems group from 1995 until august 2011. from march 2012 to february 2013, mr. neri served as a director of mphasis limited, a technology company. on november 21, 2017, hpe announced that mr. neri was appointed to serve as president and chief executive officer of hpe effective february 1, 2018. 8 table of contents henry gomez; age 54; executive vice president, chief marketing and communications officer mr. gomez has served as executive vice president and chief marketing and communications officer of hewlett packard enterprise since november 2015. prior to that, mr. gomez performed a similar role at hp co. from august 2013 to november 2015. previously, he served as chief communications officer and executive vice president of hp co. from january 2012 to july 2013. prior to that, he ran hsg communications, a consulting business that he founded in september 2008. he also served on the leadership team of ms. whitman's gubernatorial campaign from february 2009 to november 2010. from september 2011 to september 2013 he served as a director of bj's restaurants, inc., a food service company. kirt p. karros; age 48; senior vice president, finance and treasurer mr. karros has served as senior vice president, finance and treasurer at hewlett packard enterprise since november 2015. prior to that, mr. karros performed a similar role at hp co. as well as leading investor relations from may 2015 to october 2015. previously, mr. karros served as a principal and managing director of research for relational investors llc, an investment fund, from 2001 to may 2015. mr. karros served as a director of pmc-sierra, a semiconductor company, from august 2013 to may 2015. alan may; age 59; executive vice president, human resources mr. may has served as executive vice president, human resources at hewlett packard enterprise since june 2015. before joining hewlett packard enterprise, mr. may served as vice president, human resources at boeing commercial aircraft, a division of the boeing company, from april 2013 to june 2015. previously, mr. may served as vice president of human resources for boeing defense, space and security at boeing from april 2011 to june 2015 and as vice president, of compensation, benefits and strategy at boeing from august 2007 to april 2011. jeff t. ricci; age 56; senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer mr. ricci has served as senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer at hewlett packard enterprise since november 2015. prior to that, mr. ricci performed a similar role at hp co. from april 2014 to november 2015. previously, mr. ricci served as controller and principal accounting officer at hp co. on an interim basis from november 2013 to april 2014. prior to that, mr. ricci served as vice president of finance for hp co.'s technology and operations organization from may 2012 to november 2013. mr. ricci served as hp co.'s vice president of finance for global accounts and hp financial services from march 2011 to may 2012 and vice president of finance for hp software from march 2009 to march 2011. john f. schultz; age 53; executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary mr. schultz has served as executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary of hewlett packard enterprise since december 2017. mr. schultz previously served as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of hewlett packard enterprise from november 2015 to december 2017. prior to that, mr. schultz performed a similar role at hp co. from april 2012 to november 2015. previously, he served as deputy general counsel for litigation, investigations and global functions at hp co. from september 2008 to april 2012. from march 2005 to september 2008, mr. schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at morgan, lewis &amp; bockius llp, a law firm, where, among other clients, he supported hp co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. timothy c. stonesifer; age 50; executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. stonesifer has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at hewlett packard enterprise since november 2015. prior to that, mr. stonesifer acted as senior vice president and chief financial officer, enterprise group at hp co. from february 2014 to november 2015. before joining hp co., he served as chief financial officer of general motors international operations, an automotive company, from may 2011 to january 2014. previously, he served as chief financial officer of alegco scotsman, a storage company, from june 2010 to may 2011. prior to that, mr. stonesifer served as chief financial officer of sabic innovative plastics (formerly ge plastics) from august 2007 to june 2010 after having served in various other positions at general electric since joining the company in 1989. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the securities and exchange commission. hewlett packard enterprise's corporate governance guidelines, board of directors' committee charters (including the charters of the audit committee, finance and investment committee, hr and compensation committee, technology committee, and nominating, governance and social 9 table of contents responsibility committee) and code of ethics entitled "standards of business conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: hewlett packard enterprise company attention: investor relations 3000 hanover street palo alto, ca 94304 http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this form 10-k in evaluating hewlett packard enterprise and its common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated and combined financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplemental data" of this form 10-k. risks related to our business if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver hybrid it solutions to our customers and power the intelligent edge that runs campus, branch and internet of things applications. to successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their 11 table of contents business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. 12 table of contents considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. further, ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may limit demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. sales outside the united states constituted approximately 66% of our net revenue in fiscal 2017. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors, or federal and state tax reforms; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("oems"), or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; 13 table of contents difficulties associated with repatriating earnings generated or held abroad in a tax-efficient manner, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the "fcpa"). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in 14 table of contents production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components (such as dynamic random-access memory ( dram ) which increased in price significantly during fiscal 2017) may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by earthquakes, telecommunications failures, power or water shortages, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, medical epidemics or pandemics and other natural or manmade disasters or catastrophic events, for which we are predominantly self-insured. the occurrence of any of these business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, 15 table of contents adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, and other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to natural disasters or other business disruptions occurring in that geographical area, such as 2017 hurricane harvey, which caused severe damage in houston. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the czech republic, mexico, china and singapore. we also rely on major logistics hubs, primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near locations more vulnerable to the occurrence of the aforementioned business disruptions, such as near major earthquake faults, and being consolidated in certain geographical areas is unknown and remains uncertain. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be cancelled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). for example, in may 2015, we acquired aruba networks, inc., which provides next-generation network access solutions for mobile enterprise. in may 2016, we completed the sale to tsinghua holdings co., ltd. ("tsinghua"), the asset management arm of tsinghua university in china, of a 51% interest in our wholly owned subsidiary that owns and operates h3c technologies and our china-based server, storage and technology services businesses for approximately $2.6 billion. on april 1, 2017 and september 1, 2017, we spun off our enterprise services and software businesses, respectively. see also the risk factors below under the heading risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third parties or market trends. certain previous business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory 16 table of contents adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: 17 table of contents successfully combining product and service offerings, including under the single new hewlett packard enterprise brand, and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish customer service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have announced restructuring plans, including the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan (each as defined below), and the hpe next initiative, in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our it infrastructure and redesign business processes. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, including details regarding the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan, and the hpe next initiative, see note 4, "restructuring", and note 5, hpe next , to the consolidated and combined financial statements. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages, either of which could result in costly product redesign efforts, discontinuance of certain product offerings or other harm to our competitive position. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. for example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that 18 table of contents may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties also may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hewlett packard enterprise and its customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. the allocation of intellectual property rights that was made between hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. as part of the separation of the two entities, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could in the future adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hp co. allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. as a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hp inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, hewlett packard enterprise no longer has ownership of intellectual property allocated to hp inc. and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement and patent licensing, our ability to sell our products or services and our competitive position in the industry. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, our former parent has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. 19 table of contents we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated and combined financial statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated and combined financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." in addition, as discussed in note 19, "litigation and contingencies", to our consolidated and combined financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. in particular, if circumstances change such that we are unable to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings outside the united states, future income tax expense and payments may differ significantly from historical amounts and could materially adversely affect our results of operations. as of october 31, 2017, we had $12.0 billion of undistributed earnings from non-u.s. operations indefinitely reinvested outside of the united states. see note 8, "taxes on earnings", to our consolidated and combined financial statements. the carrying value of our deferred tax assets, which are predominantly in the united states, is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income in the united states. in addition, there are proposals for tax legislation that have been introduced or that are being considered that could have a significant effect on our tax rate, the carrying value of deferred tax assets, or our deferred tax liabilities. any of these changes could affect our financial performance. potential u.s. tax reform could have a material effect on the taxation of our business. recently, u.s. tax reform bills containing a wide variety of potential changes have been passed by each of the u.s. house of representatives and the u.s. senate. certain changes to u.s. tax laws, specifically u.s. taxation on earnings from international business operations, the deductibility of certain costs, and the continuance of certain tax credits, if enacted, may materially impact our effective tax rate and the amount of taxes we pay. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or it services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. as a leading technology firm we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors and activist hackers (collectively, malicious parties) who may be able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures and misappropriate, maliciously alter or destroy our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain to embed malicious software in our products for use in compromising our customers. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our pointnext services business may processes, store and transmits data relevant to our clients, including commercially sensitive and personally identifiable information, including the personal information of european citizens covered by the general data protection regulation (gdpr). breaches of our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the content of our products and the recycling, treatment and disposal of our products. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and materials composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our 21 table of contents products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. in addition, our business is subject to laws addressing privacy and information security. in particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. if we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party claims. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. hewlett packard enterprise's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hewlett packard enterprise or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hewlett packard enterprise and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hewlett packard enterprise's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hewlett packard enterprise. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hewlett packard enterprise's performance also may affect the price of hewlett packard enterprise's stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. we currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services. despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. in addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. this collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; 22 table of contents increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. in addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hewlett packard enterprise. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hewlett packard enterprise could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hewlett packard enterprise stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hewlett packard enterprise stock. risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment the stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment could result in significant tax liability, and dxc or micro focus (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our software segment were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ); and (ii) the relevant merger as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. while the software separation is generally expected to qualify for tax-free treatment for us, seattle spinco and micro focus, the acquisition of seattle spinco by micro focus is expected to result in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for u.s. persons who receive micro focus american depositary shares in the software separation. each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, everett spinco and csc, or us, seattle spinco and micro focus, 23 table of contents as applicable. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the internal revenue service (the irs ) could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs and there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert a contrary position. if the distribution of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive everett spinco shares or seattle spinco shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. we obtained a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain matters impacting the u.s. federal income tax treatment of the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the conclusions of the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, reliance on the irs private letter ruling may be affected. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former enterprise services business, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former enterprise services business in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. if the completed separation of our former enterprise services business or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the completed separation of our former enterprise services business are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or dxc could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. we have applied for a private letter ruling from the irs regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the software separation and certain related transactions as transactions that are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the conclusions of the irs private letter ruling will be based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the irs private letter ruling may be affected. if the completed separation of our former software segment or certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of the completed separation of our former software segment are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, or if we do not receive the private letter ruling concluding that the transactions are generally tax-free, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or micro focus could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former software segment business, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former software segment business in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with everett spinco and csc, and with seattle spinco and micro focus, everett spinco and seattle spinco generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable. any such indemnity obligations could be material. risks related to the prior separation from former parent if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hewlett packard enterprise and those who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant tax liabilities, and, in certain circumstances, hewlett packard enterprise could be required to indemnify hp inc. for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. it was a condition to the distribution that our former parent receive (i) a private letter ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the "irs") and/or one or more opinions from its external tax advisors, regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and related transactions, and (ii) opinions of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. these opinions of outside counsel or other external tax advisors 24 table of contents and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise (including those relating to the past and future conduct of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise). if, in the future, any of these facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if hp inc., as successor to hp co., or hewlett packard enterprise breach any of their respective covenants contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion, the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion may be rendered invalid. accordingly, notwithstanding hp co.'s receipt of the irs private letter ruling and/or opinions of counsel or other external tax advisors, the irs could determine that the distribution and certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which any opinion was based are false or have been violated. in addition, the irs private letter ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and an opinion of outside counsel or other external tax advisor represents the judgment of such counsel or advisor which is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by hp co. of the irs private letter ruling and the tax opinions referred to above, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the irs were to prevail with such challenge, hp inc., hewlett packard enterprise and hp co. stockholders who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, is found to no longer qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hp inc. would recognize taxable gain as if it has sold the hewlett packard enterprise common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value and hp co. stockholders who received shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax matters agreement we entered into with hp inc. in connection with the separation (the "tax matters agreement"), we are generally required to indemnify hp inc. for any taxes resulting from the separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of hewlett packard enterprise, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by hewlett packard enterprise or (iii) any of the representations or undertakings of hewlett packard enterprise contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion being incorrect or violated. any such indemnity obligations could be material. our historical financial information for periods prior to the separation is not necessarily representative of the results that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company and may not be a reliable indicator of our future results. the historical information about hewlett packard enterprise relating to fiscal years prior to 2016 in this form 10-k refers to our business as formerly operated by and integrated with our former parent, and does not necessarily reflect the financial condition, results of operations or cash flows that we would have achieved as a separate, publicly traded company during the period presented or those that we will achieve in the future primarily as a result of the following factors, among others: prior to the separation, our business was operated by our former parent as part of its broader corporate organization, rather than as an independent company. our former parent or one of its affiliates performed various corporate functions for us such as legal, treasury, accounting, internal auditing, human resources and corporate affairs, and also provided our it and other corporate infrastructure. our historical financial results reflect allocations of corporate expenses from our former parent for such functions and are likely to be less than the expenses we would have incurred had we operated as a separate publicly traded company. historically, when we were integrated with the other businesses of our former parent, we shared economies of scope and scale in costs, employees, vendor relationships and customer relationships. although we have entered into certain agreements (including a transition services agreement) with hp inc. in connection with the separation, these arrangements may not fully capture the benefits that we enjoyed as a result of being integrated with our former parent and may result in us paying higher charges than in the past for these services. this could have an adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in future periods. generally, our working capital requirements and capital for our general corporate purposes, including acquisitions and capital expenditures, had been satisfied as part of the corporate-wide cash management policies of our former parent prior to the separation. in connection with the separation, we have entered into certain financing arrangements described under the section entitled "description of material indebtedness" as part of our transition to becoming a 25 table of contents standalone company. we may in the future need to obtain additional financing from banks, through public offerings or private placements of debt or equity securities, strategic relationships or other arrangements. the cost of capital for our business may be higher than our former parent's cost of capital prior to the separation. other significant changes have occurred and may occur in our cost structure, management, financing and business operations as a result of operating as a separate company. for additional information about the past financial performance of our business and the basis of presentation of the historical consolidated and combined financial statements of our business, see "consolidated and combined financial statements," "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and the historical consolidated and combined financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this form 10-k. the separation and distribution agreement that we entered into with our former parent may limit our ability to compete in certain markets and may impose limitations on our recruiting efforts for a period of time following the separation. the separation and distribution agreement includes non-compete provisions pursuant to which we generally agree to not compete with hp inc. in certain product and service categories that comprise the hp inc. business, including personal computers and printers, worldwide for three years from the distribution date. such restrictions are subject to certain exceptions set forth in the separation and distribution agreement. these restrictions may limit our ability to compete in certain markets, and could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. hewlett packard enterprise or hp inc. may fail to perform under the transition services agreement and other transaction agreements executed as part of the separation, and we may not have necessary systems and services in place when these transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements, including among others a transition services agreement (the "transition services agreement"), the separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement (the "employee matters agreement"), a real estate matters agreement (the "real estate matters agreement"), a commercial agreement (the "master commercial agreement") and an it service agreement (the "information technology service agreement" or the "it service agreement"). the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a transition period after the separation. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the master commercial agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between hp inc. and us for the purchase and sale of commercially available products and services for internal use, incorporation and bundling in oem products and services, resale to customers and use in the provision of managed services to customers, as well as joint customer pursuits and joint development activities. the it service agreement provides for the performance by one of our subsidiaries of certain application development and maintenance and it infrastructure services for hp inc. we rely on hp inc. to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hp inc. is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its obligations with respect to the provision of transition services, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. indemnification liabilities to hp inc. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations generally designed to make us financially responsible for (i) liabilities primarily associated with our business; (ii) our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; (iii) any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by hp inc. for our benefit, unless related to liabilities primarily associated with the hp inc. business; (iv) any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and (v) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in our registration statement on form 10 or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or hewlett packard enterprise and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify hp inc. under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. 26 table of contents in connection with the separation, hp inc. has indemnified us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc.'s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements we have entered into with hp inc., hp inc. has agreed to indemnify hewlett packard enterprise for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that hp inc. has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from hp inc. will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc. will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, hp inc.'s insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hp inc. or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities as a result of our separation from our former parent. as a result of the separation from our former parent, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of our former parent have or may become our obligations. for example, under the code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent for that taxable period. consequently, if hp inc. is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a pre-separation period, we could be required to pay the amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to us under the tax matters agreement. potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the separation and distribution, our former parent undertook several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. if, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the separation and distribution: was insolvent; was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution; had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. the court could then require our stockholders to return to hp inc. some or all of the shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock issued in the distribution, or require hp inc. or hewlett packard enterprise, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. the measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities, or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. 27 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 58 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 60 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2017 were the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and chinese yuan (renminbi). for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and, from time to time, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2017 and 2016, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2017 and 2016. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $39 million and $47 million at october 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments, by entering into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2017 and 2016, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2017 and 2016. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our 58 table of contents debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $43 million and $39 million at october 31, 2017 and 2016, respectively. 59 table of contentsrisk factors 11 patents our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. at present, our worldwide patent portfolio includes approximately 16,000 issued and pending patents. patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. as our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. no single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. in addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. we have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. these license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. 6 table of contents for a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "risk factors our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and " our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in item 1a. backlog we believe that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects due to our diverse product and service portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. seasonality general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. from time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. for example, european sales are often weaker in the summer months. see item 1a, "risk factors our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable." competition we have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise it infrastructure products, solutions and services. we encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our it infrastructure offerings. the markets in which we compete are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, continuously enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. in addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including oems that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. the competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: hybrid it operates in the highly competitive data center infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors include technology vendors such as dell technologies inc., cisco systems, inc., netapp, inc., lenovo group ltd., international business machines corporation, huawei technologies co. ltd., amazon.com, inc., oracle corporation, fujitsu limited, juniper networks, inc., inspur co., ltd., hitachi ltd., extreme networks, inc., pure storage, inc., vmware, nutanix, inc., google inc., and rackspace inc. in certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. intelligent edge operates in the highly competitive networking and connectivity infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors include technology vendors such as cisco systems, inc., extreme networks, inc., juniper networks, inc., aerohive networks, inc., fortinet, inc., ruckus wireless, inc., arista networks, inc., dell technologies inc., and huawei technologies co. ltd. our strategy is to deliver superior enterprise wired and wireless local-area networking components and software, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. financial services. in our financing business, our competitors are captive financing companies, such as ibm global financing, as well as banks and other financial institutions. we believe our competitive advantage over banks and other financial institutions in our financing business is our ability to deliver flexible investment solutions and expertise that help customers and other partners create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs. 7 table of contents for a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "risk factors we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in item 1a. environment our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products and in some cases, laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. some of our products and services also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. in addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to recycling and reuse of materials as part of the transition to a circular economy, the chemical and materials composition of our products, appropriate product packaging and labeling, their safe use and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. we are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). in the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. our operations, services and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. as these laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. however, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. we are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. we meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. employees we had approximately 60,000 employees as of october 31, 2018. additional information intel , itanium , and intel itanium are trademarks of intel corporation in the united states and other countries. amd is a trademark of advanced micro devices, inc. executive officers the following are our current executive officers: antonio neri; age 51; president and chief executive officer mr. neri has served as president and chief executive officer at hewlett packard enterprise since june 2017 and february 2018, respectively. prior to that, mr. neri served as executive vice president and general manager, enterprise group from november 2015 to june 2017. prior to that, mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager, enterprise group at hp co. from october 2014 to november 2015. previously, he served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp servers business unit from september 2013 to october 2014 and concurrently as senior vice president and general manager of the hp networking business unit from may 2014 to october 2014. prior to that, mr. neri served as senior vice 8 table of contents president and general manager of the hp technology services business unit from august 2011 to september 2013 and as senior vice president, customer services for the hp personal systems group from 1995 until august 2011. from march 2012 to february 2013, mr. neri served as a director of mphasis limited, a technology company. philip davis; age 51; chief sales officer and president, hybrid it mr. davis has served as the chief sales officer and president of hybrid it of hewlett packard enterprise since november 2017 and august 2018, respectively. prior to this appointment, mr. davis served as senior vice president and regional managing director of hpe's enterprise group in the asia pacific japan region, from november 2016 to october 2017. from november 2015 to october 2016, mr. davis served as vice president and general manager, storage of hpe's enterprise group in the asia pacific japan region. prior to that, mr. davis served in a similar role at hp co. from september 2014 to november 2015. before joining hpe, mr. davis served as vice president and general manager of dell's enterprise solutions group for asia pacific and japan from january 2008 to september 2014. kirt p. karros; age 49; senior vice president, finance and treasurer mr. karros has served as senior vice president, finance and treasurer at hewlett packard enterprise since november 2015. prior to that, mr. karros performed a similar role at hp co. as well as leading investor relations from may 2015 to october 2015. previously, mr. karros served as a principal and managing director of research for relational investors llc, an investment fund, from 2001 to may 2015. mr. karros served as a director of pmc-sierra, a semiconductor company, from august 2013 to may 2015. alan may; age 60; executive vice president, human resources mr. may has served as executive vice president, human resources at hewlett packard enterprise since june 2015. before joining hewlett packard enterprise, mr. may served as vice president, human resources at boeing commercial aircraft, a division of the boeing company, from april 2013 to june 2015. previously, mr. may served as vice president of human resources for boeing defense, space and security at boeing from april 2011 to june 2015 and as vice president, of compensation, benefits and strategy at boeing from august 2007 to april 2011. keerti melkote; age 48; president, intelligent edge mr. melkote has served as president of the intelligent edge division of hpe since january 2017. previously, mr. melkote served as chief technology officer of the intelligent edge division from may 2015 to december 2016. prior to that, mr. melkote performed a similar role as chief technology officer and co-founder of aruba networks from february 2009 until hpe's acquisition of aruba networks in may 2015. previously, mr. melkote served as co-founder and vice president of products at aruba networks from february 2002 to january 2009. jeff t. ricci; age 57; senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer mr. ricci has served as senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer at hewlett packard enterprise since november 2015. prior to that, mr. ricci performed a similar role at hp co. from april 2014 to november 2015. previously, mr. ricci served as controller and principal accounting officer at hp co. on an interim basis from november 2013 to april 2014. prior to that, mr. ricci served as vice president of finance for hp co.'s technology and operations organization from may 2012 to november 2013. mr. ricci served as hp co.'s vice president of finance for global accounts and hp financial services from march 2011 to may 2012 and vice president of finance for hp software from march 2009 to march 2011. tarek robbiati; age 53; executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. robbiati has served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at hewlett packard enterprise since september 2018. prior to that, mr. robbiati served as chief financial officer of sprint corporation from august 2015 until february 2018. from january 2013 until august 2015, mr. robbiati served as chief executive officer and managing director of flexigroup limited in australia. from december 2009 until december 2012, mr. robbiati was group managing director and president of telstra international group in hong kong. from december 2009 until december 2012, mr. robbiati was executive chairman of hong kong csl limited ( csl ), a subsidiary of telstra corporation limited, and from july 2007 until may 2010, mr. robbiati served as the chief executive officer of csl in hong kong. irv rothman; age 71; president and ceo of hpe financial services 9 table of contents mr. rothman has served as president and chief executive officer of hpe financial services (fs), the it investment and financing subsidiary of hewlett packard enterprise since may 2002. prior to that, mr. rothman was president and chief executive officer of compaq financial services corporation (cfs) from january 1997 to april 2002. john f. schultz; age 54; executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary mr. schultz has served as executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary of hewlett packard enterprise since december 2017. mr. schultz previously served as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary of hewlett packard enterprise from november 2015 to december 2017. prior to that, mr. schultz performed a similar role at hp co. from april 2012 to november 2015. previously, he served as deputy general counsel for litigation, investigations and global functions at hp co. from september 2008 to april 2012. from march 2005 to september 2008, mr. schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at morgan, lewis &amp; bockius llp, a law firm, where, among other clients, he supported hp co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the securities and exchange commission. hewlett packard enterprise's corporate governance guidelines, board of directors' committee charters (including the charters of the audit committee, finance and investment committee, hr and compensation committee, technology committee, and nominating, governance and social responsibility committee) and code of ethics entitled "standards of business conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. stockholders may request free copies of these documents from: hewlett packard enterprise company attention: investor relations 3000 hanover street palo alto, ca 94304 http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports 10 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this form 10-k in evaluating hewlett packard enterprise and its common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplemental data" of this form 10-k. risks related to our business if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our existing portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver hybrid it solutions to our customers and power the intelligent edge that runs campus, branch and internet of things applications. to successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their 11 table of contents business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. 12 table of contents considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. further, ongoing u.s. federal government spending limits may limit demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. sales outside the united states constituted approximately 67% of our net revenue in fiscal 2018. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors, or federal and state tax reforms; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("oems"), or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; 13 table of contents difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the "fcpa"). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses, may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting those businesses therefore may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. in addition, newer geographic markets may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of systems, products and services that we offer, the large number of our suppliers and contract manufacturers that are located around the world, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain components and products, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to 14 table of contents optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, risks related to the terms of our contracts with suppliers, risks associated with contingent workers, and risks related to our relationships with single-source suppliers, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality or other considerations. new products that we introduce may utilize custom components obtained from only one source initially until we have evaluated whether there is a need for additional suppliers. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural or human induced disasters such as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, power or water shortages, telecommunications failures, and medical epidemics or pandemics. we are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events. however, a changing climate may aggravate natural disasters that affect our worldwide business operations thereby compelling us to build additional resiliency in order to mitigate impact. the occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our 15 table of contents costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, which has suffered from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires affecting the health and safety of our employees. other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in addition, our principal worldwide it data centers are located in the southern united states, making our operations more vulnerable to climate-related natural disasters, such as 2017 hurricane harvey, which caused severe damage in houston. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the czech republic, mexico, china and singapore. we also rely on major logistics hubs, primarily in asia to manufacture and distribute our products, and primarily in the southwestern united states to import products into the americas region. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed . our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. changes in u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the u.s. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy and in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. it has also imposed tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. changes in u.s. trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). for example, in april 2017, we acquired nimble storage, inc., which provides predictive all-flash and hybrid-flash storage solutions. in may 2016, we completed the sale to tsinghua holdings co., ltd. ("tsinghua"), the asset management arm of tsinghua university in china, of a 51% interest in our wholly owned subsidiary that owns and operates h3c technologies and our china-based server, storage and technology services businesses for approximately $2.6 billion. on april 1, 2017 and september 1, 2017, we spun off our enterprise services and software businesses, respectively. see also the risk factors below under the heading risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment . risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: 16 table of contents managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third parties or market trends. certain previous business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other 17 table of contents financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings, including under the single new hewlett packard enterprise brand, and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish customer service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have announced restructuring plans, including the hpe next initiative and previously announced 2012 plan and the 2015 plan (each as defined below), in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our it infrastructure and redesign business processes. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, including details regarding the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan, and the hpe next initiative, see note 4, "restructuring", and note 5, hpe next , to the consolidated financial statements. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. 18 table of contents therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. for example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hewlett packard enterprise and its customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, our former parent has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." in addition, as discussed in 19 table of contents note 18, "litigation and contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. the carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ). the tax act makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that will generally be effective for our taxable years beginning after october 31, 2017. these changes could have a material adverse impact on the realizability of our u.s. deferred tax assets, result in significant one-time charges in the current or future taxable years and increase our future u.s. tax expense. we are continuing to evaluate the tax act and its requirements, as well as its application to our business and its impact on our effective tax rate. at this stage, it is unclear how many u.s. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. the implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the tax act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in addition, we have not completed our accounting for the tax effects of the tax act. reasonable estimates of the impacts of the tax act are provided in accordance with guidance from the u.s. securities and exchange commission that allows for a measurement period of up to one year after the enactment date of the tax act to finalize the recording of the related tax impacts. adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period(s) in which the adjustments are made. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. identifying, developing internally or hiring externally, training and retaining qualified executives, engineers, skilled solutions providers in the it support business and qualified sales representatives are critical to our future, and competition for experienced employees in the it industry can be intense. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. 20 table of contents system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or it services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. as a leading technology firm we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors and activist hackers (collectively, "malicious parties") who may be able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures and misappropriate, maliciously alter or destroy our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain to embed malicious software or hardware in our products for use in compromising our customers. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our hpe pointnext services business may processes, store and transmits data relevant to our clients, including commercially sensitive and personally identifiable information, including the personal information of european citizens covered by the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"). breaches of our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information or sensitive or confidential data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the energy performance of our products and operations, the discharge of pollutants, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the material content of our products and the recycling, as well as treatment and disposal of our products. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and material composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or 21 table of contents become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. in addition, our business is subject to laws addressing privacy and information security. in particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. if we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, and third-party claims. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. hewlett packard enterprise's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hewlett packard enterprise or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hewlett packard enterprise and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hewlett packard enterprise's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hewlett packard enterprise. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hewlett packard enterprise's performance also may affect the price of hewlett packard enterprise's stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. we currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services. despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. in addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. this collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; 22 table of contents increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. in addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hewlett packard enterprise. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hewlett packard enterprise could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hewlett packard enterprise stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hewlett packard enterprise stock. risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment the stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment could result in significant tax liability, and dxc or micro focus (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our software segment were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ); and (ii) the relevant merger as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. while the software separation generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, seattle spinco and micro focus, the acquisition of seattle spinco by micro focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for u.s. persons who receive micro focus american depositary shares in the software separation. each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, everett spinco and csc, or us, seattle spinco and micro focus, 23 table of contents as applicable. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the internal revenue service (the irs ) could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs and there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert a contrary position. if the distribution of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive everett spinco shares or seattle spinco shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. we obtained private letter rulings from the irs regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our enterprise services business and software segment. those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the conclusions of the irs private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the irs private letter rulings may be affected. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and software segment, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and software segment in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. if the completed separation of our former enterprise services business or software segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or dxc and/or micro focus could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with everett spinco and csc, and with seattle spinco and micro focus, everett spinco and seattle spinco generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable. any such indemnity obligations could be material. risks related to the prior separation from former parent if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, does not qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hewlett packard enterprise and those who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant tax liabilities, and, in certain circumstances, hewlett packard enterprise could be required to indemnify hp inc. for material taxes and other related amounts pursuant to indemnification obligations under the tax matters agreement. it was a condition to the distribution that our former parent receive (i) a private letter ruling from the u.s. internal revenue service (the "irs") and/or one or more opinions from its external tax advisors, regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation and related transactions, and (ii) opinions of outside counsel regarding the qualification of the distribution, together with certain related transactions, as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code. these opinions of outside counsel or other external tax advisors and the irs private letter ruling were based, among other things, on various facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise (including those relating to the past and future conduct of hp co. and hewlett packard enterprise). if, in the future, any of these facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings is, or becomes, inaccurate or incomplete, or if hp inc., as successor to hp co., or hewlett packard enterprise breach any of their respective covenants contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion, the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion may be rendered invalid. accordingly, notwithstanding hp co.'s receipt of the irs private letter ruling and/or opinions of counsel or other external tax advisors, the irs could determine that the distribution and certain related transactions should be treated as taxable transactions for u.s. federal income tax purposes if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings that were included in the request for the irs private letter ruling or on which any opinion was based are false or have been violated. in addition, the irs private letter ruling does not address all of the issues that are relevant to determining whether the distribution, together with certain related transactions, qualifies as a transaction that is generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes, and an opinion of outside counsel or other external tax advisor represents the 24 table of contents judgment of such counsel or advisor which is not binding on the irs or any court. accordingly, notwithstanding receipt by hp co. of the irs private letter ruling and the tax opinions referred to above, there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert that the distribution and/or certain related transactions do not qualify for tax-free treatment for u.s. federal income tax purposes or that a court would not sustain such a challenge. in the event the irs were to prevail with such challenge, hp inc., hewlett packard enterprise and hp co. stockholders who received hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution could be subject to significant u.s. federal income tax liability. if the distribution, together with certain related transactions, is found to no longer qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, hp inc. would recognize taxable gain as if it has sold the hewlett packard enterprise common stock in a taxable sale for its fair market value and hp co. stockholders who received shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock in the distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. under the tax matters agreement we entered into with hp inc. in connection with the separation (the "tax matters agreement"), we are generally required to indemnify hp inc. for any taxes resulting from the separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) an acquisition of all or a portion of the equity securities or assets of hewlett packard enterprise, whether by merger or otherwise (and regardless of whether we participated in or otherwise facilitated the acquisition), (ii) other actions or failures to act by hewlett packard enterprise or (iii) any of the representations or undertakings of hewlett packard enterprise contained in any of the separation-related agreements or in the documents relating to the irs private letter ruling and/or any tax opinion being incorrect or violated. any such indemnity obligations could be material. hewlett packard enterprise or hp inc. may fail to perform under the transition services agreement and other transaction agreements executed as part of the separation, and we may not have necessary systems and services in place when these transaction agreements expire. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements, including among others a transition services agreement (the "transition services agreement"), the separation and distribution agreement, the tax matters agreement, an employee matters agreement (the "employee matters agreement"), a real estate matters agreement (the "real estate matters agreement"), a commercial agreement (the "master commercial agreement") and an it service agreement (the "information technology service agreement" or the "it service agreement"). the transition services agreement provides for the performance of certain services by each company for the benefit of the other for a transition period after the separation. the separation and distribution agreement, tax matters agreement, employee matters agreement and real estate matters agreement determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for those respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. the master commercial agreement establishes a bilateral relationship between hp inc. and us for the purchase and sale of commercially available products and services for internal use, incorporation and bundling in oem products and services, resale to customers and use in the provision of managed services to customers, as well as joint customer pursuits and joint development activities. the it service agreement provides for the performance by one of our subsidiaries of certain application development and maintenance and it infrastructure services for hp inc. we rely on hp inc. to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. if hp inc. is unable to satisfy its obligations under these agreements, including its obligations with respect to the provision of transition services, we could incur operational difficulties or losses that could have a material and adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. indemnification liabilities to hp inc. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. the separation and distribution agreement provides for, among other things, indemnification obligations generally designed to make us financially responsible for (i) liabilities primarily associated with our business; (ii) our failure to pay, perform or otherwise promptly discharge any such liabilities or contracts, in accordance with their respective terms, whether prior to, at or after the distribution; (iii) any guarantee, indemnification obligation, surety bond or other credit support agreement, arrangement, commitment or understanding by hp inc. for our benefit, unless related to liabilities primarily associated with the hp inc. business; (iv) any breach by us of the separation agreement or any of the ancillary agreements or any action by us in contravention of our amended and restated certificate of incorporation or amended and restated bylaws; and (v) any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or omission or alleged omission to state a material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, with respect to all information contained in our registration statement on form 10 or any other disclosure document that describes the separation or the distribution or hewlett packard enterprise and its subsidiaries or primarily relates to the transactions contemplated by the separation and distribution agreement, subject to certain exceptions. if we are required to indemnify hp inc. under the circumstances set forth in the separation and distribution agreement, we may be subject to substantial liabilities. 25 table of contents in connection with the separation, hp inc. has indemnified us for certain liabilities. however, there can be no assurance that the indemnity will be sufficient to insure us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc.'s ability to satisfy its indemnification obligation will not be impaired in the future. pursuant to the separation and distribution agreement and certain other agreements we have entered into with hp inc., hp inc. has agreed to indemnify hewlett packard enterprise for certain liabilities. however, third parties could also seek to hold us responsible for any of the liabilities that hp inc. has agreed to retain, and there can be no assurance that the indemnity from hp inc. will be sufficient to protect us against the full amount of such liabilities, or that hp inc. will be able to fully satisfy its indemnification obligations. in addition, hp inc.'s insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for liabilities associated with certain occurrences of indemnified liabilities prior to the separation. moreover, even if we ultimately succeed in recovering from hp inc. or such insurance providers any amounts for which we are held liable, we may be temporarily required to bear these losses. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. we are subject to continuing contingent liabilities as a result of our separation from our former parent. as a result of the separation from our former parent, there are several significant areas where the liabilities of our former parent have or may become our obligations. for example, under the code and the related rules and regulations, each corporation that was a member of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent during a taxable period or portion of a taxable period ending on or before the effective date of the distribution is severally liable for the u.s. federal income tax liability of the consolidated u.s. federal income tax return group of our former parent for that taxable period. consequently, if hp inc. is unable to pay the consolidated u.s. federal income tax liability for a pre-separation period, we could be required to pay the amount of such tax, which could be substantial and in excess of the amount allocated to us under the tax matters agreement. potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the separation and distribution, our former parent undertook several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. if, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the separation and distribution: was insolvent; was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution; had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. the court could then require our stockholders to return to hp inc. some or all of the shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock issued in the distribution, or require hp inc. or hewlett packard enterprise, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. the measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities, or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. the allocation of intellectual property rights that was made between hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could in the future adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hp co. allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. as a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hp inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, hewlett packard enterprise no longer has ownership of intellectual property allocated to hp inc. and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement and patent licensing, our ability to sell our products or services and our competitive position in the industry. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 60 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2018 were the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and chinese yuan (renminbi). for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and, from time to time, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2018 and 2017, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2018 and 2017. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $36 million and $39 million at october 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued and our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar libor-based floating interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, we may choose not to swap fixed for floating interest payments or may terminate a previously executed swap if we believe a larger proportion of fixed-rate debt would be beneficial. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments, by entering into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2018 and 2017, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2018 and 2017. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our 59 table of contents debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $29 million and $43 million at october 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 60 table of contentsrisk factors 12 patents our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. at present, our worldwide patent portfolio includes approximately 15,000 issued and pending patents. patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. as our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research and development investments. no single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. in addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. we have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. these license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. for a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "risk factors our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and " our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in item 1a. backlog we believe that our backlog is not a meaningful indicator of our future business prospects due to our diverse product and service portfolio, including the large volume of products delivered from finished goods or channel partner inventories and the shortening of product life cycles. therefore, we believe that backlog information is not material to an understanding of our overall business. seasonality general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. from time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. for example, european sales are often weaker in the summer months. see item 1a, "risk factors our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable." competition we have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise it infrastructure products, solutions and services. we encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our it infrastructure offerings. the markets in which we compete are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, continuously enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. in addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including oems that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. 7 table of contents the competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: hybrid it operates in the highly competitive data center infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors include technology vendors such as dell technologies inc., cisco systems, inc., netapp, inc., lenovo group ltd., international business machines corporation, huawei technologies co. ltd., amazon.com, inc., oracle corporation, fujitsu limited, juniper networks, inc., inspur co., ltd., hitachi ltd., extreme networks, inc., pure storage, inc., vmware, nutanix, inc., google inc., and rackspace inc. in certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. intelligent edge operates in the highly competitive networking and connectivity infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors include technology vendors such as cisco systems, inc., extreme networks, inc., juniper networks, inc., fortinet, inc., ruckus wireless, inc., arista networks, inc., dell technologies inc., and huawei technologies co. ltd. our strategy is to deliver superior enterprise wired and wireless local-area networking components and software, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. financial services. in our financing business, our primary competitors are captive financing companies, such as ibm global financing, dell financial services, and cisco capital, as well as banks and other financial institutions. our primary it asset disposition (itad) competitors are eri, ingram micro, sage sustainable electronics, and sims recycling solutions. we believe our competitive advantage over banks, other financial institutions, and itad providers is our ability to bring together our investment solutions with our expertise in managing technology assets. not only are we able to deliver investment solutions that help customers create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs, but we also help them extract value from existing it investments while more efficiently managing the retirement of those assets. all of these solutions can help customers accelerate digital transformation, create new budget streams, and meet circular economy objectives. for a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "risk factors we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in item 1a. environment our operations are subject to regulation under various federal, state, local, and foreign laws concerning the environment, including laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water, the management, movement, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites. we could incur substantial costs, including clean-up costs, fines and civil or criminal sanctions and third-party damage or personal injury claims, if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws. many of our products are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws governing chemical substances in products and their safe use, including laws restricting the presence of certain substances in electronics products and in some cases, laws regulating the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. some of our products and services also are, or may in the future be, subject to requirements applicable to their energy consumption. in addition, we face increasing complexity in our product design, procurement operations, and transportation and shipping infrastructure as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to recycling and reuse of materials as part of the transition to a circular economy, the chemical and materials composition of our products, appropriate product packaging and labeling, their safe use and their energy efficiency, including requirements relating to climate change. we are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). in the event our products become non-compliant with these laws, our products could be restricted from entering certain jurisdictions and we could face other sanctions, including fines. our operations, services and ultimately our products are expected to become increasingly subject to federal, state, local, and foreign laws, regulations and international treaties relating to climate change. as these laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. however, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance 8 table of contents with related laws, regulations and treaties. see "risk factors-our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations" in item 1a. we are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. we meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. environmental costs and accruals are presently not material to our operations, cash flows or financial position. although there is no assurance that existing or future environmental laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our operations, cash flows or financial condition, we do not currently anticipate material capital expenditures for environmental control facilities. employees we had approximately 61,600 employees as of october 31, 2019. additional information intel and itanium are trademarks of intel corporation in the united states and other countries. amd is a trademark of advanced micro devices, inc. information about our executive officers the following are our current executive officers: name age position antonio neri 52 president and chief executive officer philip davis 52 president, hybrid it kirt p. karros 50 senior vice president, finance and treasurer alan may 61 executive vice president and chief people officer keerti melkote 49 president, intelligent edge jeff t. ricci 58 senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer tarek robbiati 54 executive vice president and chief financial officer irv rothman 73 president and chief executive officer, hpe financial services john schultz 55 executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary antonio neri; president and chief executive officer mr. neri has served as our president and chief executive officer since june 2017 and february 2018, respectively. mr. neri previously served as executive vice president and general manager of our enterprise group from november 2015 to june 2017. prior to that, mr. neri served in a similar role for hp co.'s enterprise group from october 2014 to november 2015. mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp servers business unit from september 2013 to october 2014 and concurrently as senior vice president and general manager of the hp networking business unit from may 2014 to october 2014. prior to that, mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp technology services business segment from august 2011 to september 2013 and as vice president, customer services for the hp personal systems group from 2007 to august 2011, having first joined hp co. in 1996. from march 2012 to february 2013, mr. neri served as a director of mphasis limited, an india-based technology company. philip davis; president, hybrid it mr. davis has served as president of our hybrid it business segment since august 2018 and concurrently as our chief sales officer from november 2017 to october 2019. prior to that, mr. davis served as senior vice president and regional managing director of our enterprise group in the asia pacific japan region, from november 2016 to october 2017. mr. davis previously served as vice president and general manager, storage of our enterprise group in the asia pacific japan region from november 2015 to october 2016. prior to that, mr. davis served in a similar role at hp co. from september 2014 to november 2015. before joining hp co., mr. davis served as vice president and general manager of dell's enterprise solutions group in the asia pacific japan region from january 2008 to september 2014. 9 table of contents kirt p. karros; senior vice president, finance and treasurer mr. karros has served as our senior vice president, finance and treasurer since november 2015. prior to that, mr. karros served in a similar role at hp co. and led its investor relations from may 2015 to october 2015. mr. karros previously served as principal and managing director of research for relational investors llc, an investment fund, from 2001 to may 2015 and concurrently as a director of pmc-sierra, a semiconductor company, from august 2013 to may 2015. alan may; executive vice president and chief people officer mr. may has served as our executive vice president, chief people officer since june 2015. before joining hewlett packard enterprise, mr. may served as vice president, human resources at boeing commercial aircraft, a division of the boeing company, from april 2013 to june 2015. prior to that, mr. may served as vice president, human resources for boeing defense, space and security at boeing from april 2011 to june 2015 and as vice president, compensation, benefits and strategy at boeing from august 2007 to april 2011. mr. may has also served in senior human resources roles at cerberus capital management and pepsico. keerti melkote; president, intelligent edge mr. melkote has served as president of our intelligent edge business segment since january 2017. mr. melkote previously served as chief technology officer of intelligent edge from may 2015 to december 2016. prior to that, mr. melkote performed a similar role as chief technology officer and co-founder of aruba networks from february 2009 until our acquisition of aruba networks in may 2015. previously, mr. melkote served as co-founder and vice president, products at aruba networks from february 2002 to january 2009. jeff t. ricci; senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer mr. ricci has served as our senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer since november 2015. prior to that, mr. ricci performed a similar role at hp co. from april 2014 to november 2015. mr. ricci served as controller and principal accounting officer at hp co. on an interim basis from november 2013 to april 2014. previously, mr. ricci served as vice president, finance for several of hp co.'s organizations, including technology and operations from may 2012 to november 2013, global accounts and hp financial services from march 2011 to may 2012, and hp software from march 2009 to march 2011. tarek robbiati; executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. robbiati has served as our executive vice president, chief financial officer since september 2018. before joining hewlett packard enterprise, mr. robbiati served as chief financial officer of sprint corporation from august 2015 to february 2018. mr. robbiati previously served as chief executive officer and managing director of flexigroup limited in australia from january 2013 to august 2015. prior to that, from december 2009 to december 2012, mr. robbiati was group managing director and president of telstra international group in hong kong and executive chairman of hong kong csl limited ( csl ), a subsidiary of telstra corporation limited. from july 2007 to may 2010, mr. robbiati served as the chief executive officer of csl in hong kong. irv rothman; president and chief executive officer, hpe financial services mr. rothman has served as president and chief executive officer of our financial services business segment, our it investment and financing subsidiary, since november 2015. prior to that, mr. rothman served in a similar role at hp co. from may 2002 to november 2015. prior to joining hp co., mr. rothman was president and chief executive officer of compaq financial services corporation from january 1997 to april 2002. john f. schultz; executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary mr. schultz has served as our executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary since december 2017. prior to that, mr. schultz served as our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary from november 2015 to december 2017, performing a similar role at hp co. from april 2012 to november 2015. mr. schultz previously served as deputy general counsel for litigation, investigations and global functions at hp co. from september 2008 to april 2012. prior to joining hp co., mr. schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at morgan, lewis &amp; bockius llp, a law firm, from march 2005 to september 2008, where, among other clients, he supported hp co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. 10 table of contents available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the securities and exchange commission. hewlett packard enterprise's corporate governance guidelines, board of directors' committee charters (including the charters of the audit committee, finance and investment committee, hr and compensation committee, technology committee, and nominating, governance and social responsibility committee) and code of ethics entitled "standards of business conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. stockholders may request free printed copies of these documents from: hewlett packard enterprise company attention: investor relations 6280 america center dr san jose, ca 95002 http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this form 10-k in evaluating hewlett packard enterprise and its common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k. risks related to our business if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver global edge to cloud platform-as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. hpe delivers unique, open and intelligent technology solutions, with a consistent experience across all clouds and edge computing platforms. to successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, product range and ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, and security of our offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have alliances in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have alliances also may acquire or form alliances with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with alliance partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. 12 table of contents we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards converged products and solutions, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. for example, the development of cloud-based solutions has reduced demand for some of our existing hardware products. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting 13 table of contents demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. our transition to a subscription-based business model may adversely affect our business, operating results and free cash flow. we are currently transitioning to an as-a-service company, providing our entire portfolio through a range of subscription-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings. we will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, ultimately giving our customers choice in consuming hpe products and services in a traditional or as-a-service offering. such business model changes entail significant risks and uncertainties, and we may be unable to complete the transition to a subscription-based business model, or manage the transition successfully and in a timely manner; and our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results may be adversely affected. additionally, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the subscription transition, even if we successfully complete the transition. the transition to a subscription-based business model also means that our historical results, especially those achieved before we began the transition, may not be indicative of our future results. further, as customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our as-a-service offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). in addition, the transition to an as-a-service company is expected to require incremental capital requirements, resulting in a negative impact to cash flows in the near term, and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. furthermore, we anticipate needing to redesign our go-to-market structure, to better align with the subscription-based business model. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from such adjustments. due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. further, ongoing u.s. federal government spending priorities may limit demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. sales outside the united states constituted approximately 67% of our net revenue in fiscal 2019. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the united kingdom's vote to exit the european union; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors, or federal and state tax reforms; 14 table of contents local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("oems"), or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, there are companies that engage in business practices prohibited by laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act of 1977, as amended (the "fcpa"). although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors and agents, as well as those of the companies to which we outsource certain of our business operations, may take actions in violation of our policies. any such violation, even if prohibited by our policies, could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. in addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. 15 table of contents moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our suppliers properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of solutions that we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain solutions, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational and labor risks, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain a significant number of components from single sources due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale or customization needs. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may be subject to capacity constraints or other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations could be disrupted by natural or human induced disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, hurricanes, typhoons, fires, extreme weather conditions, power or water shortages, telecommunications failures, materials scarcity and price volatility, and medical epidemics or pandemics. we are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the 16 table of contents impact of most catastrophic events. climate change serves as a risk multiplier increasing both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations. therefore, forecasting disruptive events and building additional resiliency into our operations accordingly will become an increasing business imperative. the occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires affecting the health and safety of our employees. to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities are deploying public safety power shutoffs (psps), which affects electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in 2017, our principal worldwide it data centers in houston were flooded due hurricane harvey. since then, hpe has increased its resiliency through site selection and infrastructure investments to mitigate physical risks from climate change. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the czech republic, mexico, china and singapore. we also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to hpe's distribution channels and customers. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed . our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. for example, sales to governments (particularly sales to the u.s. government) are often stronger in the third calendar quarter, and many customers whose fiscal year is the calendar year spend their remaining capital budget authorizations in the fourth calendar quarter prior to new budget constraints in the first calendar quarter of the following year. european sales are often weaker during the summer months. typically, our third fiscal quarter is our weakest and our fourth fiscal quarter is our strongest. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. changes in u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. the u.s. government has adopted a new approach to trade policy and in some cases to renegotiate, or potentially terminate, certain existing bilateral or multi-lateral trade agreements. it has also imposed tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. changes in u.s. trade policy have resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our business strategy, we may acquire companies or businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures and make investments to further our business (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions"). for example, in september 2019, we acquired cray inc., a global supercomputer leader. in may 2016, we completed the sale to tsinghua holdings co., ltd. ("tsinghua"), the asset management arm of tsinghua university in china, of a 51% interest in our wholly owned subsidiary that owns and operates h3c technologies and our china-based server, storage and technology services businesses for approximately $2.6 billion. on april 1, 2017 and september 1, 2017, we spun off our enterprise services and software businesses, respectively. see also the risk factors below under the heading risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment . risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our revenue, gross margin, profitability and financial results: 17 table of contents managing business combination and investment transactions requires varying levels of management resources, which may divert our attention from other business operations. we may not fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, and the timeframe for realizing the benefits of a particular business combination and investment transaction may depend partially upon the actions of employees, advisors, suppliers, other third parties or market trends. certain previous business combination and investment transactions have resulted, and in the future any such transactions by us may result, in significant costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. any increased or unexpected costs, unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations could make business combination and investment transactions less profitable or unprofitable. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. our due diligence process may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies. the pricing and other terms of our contracts for business combination and investment transactions require us to make estimates and assumptions at the time we enter into these contracts, and, during the course of our due diligence, we may not identify all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters or we may incur costs if a business combination is not consummated. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders. we may borrow to finance business combination and investment transactions, and the amount and terms of any potential future acquisition-related or other borrowings, as well as other factors, could affect our liquidity and financial condition. our effective tax rate on an ongoing basis is uncertain, and business combination and investment transactions could adversely impact our effective tax rate. an announced business combination and investment transaction may not close on the expected timeframe or at all, which may cause our financial results to differ from expectations in a given quarter. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. if we fail to identify and successfully complete and integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives, we may be required to expend resources to develop products, services and technology internally, which may put us at a competitive disadvantage. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. as part of our business strategy, we regularly evaluate the potential disposition of assets and businesses that may no longer help us meet our objectives. when we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, which could delay the achievement of our strategic objectives. we may also dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. in addition, we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected, and the impact of the divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected. after reaching an agreement with a buyer or seller for the acquisition or disposition of a business, we are subject to satisfaction of pre-closing conditions as well as to necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, which, if not satisfied or obtained, may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. 18 table of contents integrating acquisitions may be difficult and time-consuming. any failure by us to integrate acquired companies, products or services into our overall business in a timely manner could harm our financial results, business and prospects. in order to pursue our strategy successfully, we must identify candidates for and successfully complete business combination and investment transactions, some of which may be large or complex, and manage post-closing issues such as the integration of acquired businesses, products, services or employees. integration issues are often time-consuming and expensive and, without proper planning and implementation, could significantly disrupt our business and the acquired business. the challenges involved in integration include: successfully combining product and service offerings, including under the single hewlett packard enterprise brand, and entering or expanding into markets in which we are not experienced or are developing expertise; convincing customers and distributors that the transaction will not diminish customer service standards or business focus; persuading customers and distributors to not defer purchasing decisions or switch to other suppliers (which could result in our incurring additional obligations in order to address customer uncertainty), minimizing sales force attrition and expanding and coordinating sales, marketing and distribution efforts; consolidating and rationalizing corporate it infrastructure, which may include multiple legacy systems from various acquisitions and integrating software code and business processes; minimizing the diversion of management attention from ongoing business concerns; persuading employees that business cultures are compatible, maintaining employee morale and retaining key employees, engaging with employee works councils representing an acquired company's non-u.s. employees, integrating employees, correctly estimating employee benefit costs and implementing restructuring programs; coordinating and combining administrative, manufacturing, research and development and other operations, subsidiaries, facilities and relationships with third parties in accordance with local laws and other obligations while maintaining adequate standards, controls and procedures; achieving savings from supply chain integration; and managing integration issues shortly after or pending the completion of other independent transactions. we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our restructuring may adversely affect our business. we have announced restructuring plans, including the hpe next initiative and previously announced 2012 plan and the 2015 plan (each as defined below), in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our it infrastructure and redesign business processes. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, including details regarding the 2012 plan and the 2015 plan, and the hpe next initiative, see note 4, "restructuring", and note 5, hpe next , to the consolidated financial statements. our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. for example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, 19 table of contents defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. for example, patent assertion entities may purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of asserting claims of infringement and attempting to extract settlements from companies such as hewlett packard enterprise and its customers. if we cannot or do not license allegedly infringed intellectual property at all or on reasonable terms, or if we are required to substitute similar technology from another source, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. failure to comply with our customer contracts or government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with our customers may include unique and specialized performance requirements. in particular, our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any failure by us to comply with the specific provisions in our customer contracts or any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, our former parent has in the past been, and we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. further, any negative publicity related to our customer contracts or any proceedings surrounding them, regardless of its accuracy, may damage our business by affecting our ability to compete for new contracts. if our customer contracts are terminated, if we are suspended or disbarred from government work, or if our ability to compete for new contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." in addition, as discussed in note 18, "litigation and contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. 20 table of contents unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross-jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. we regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of our tax provision. however, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. the carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd), an international association of 34 countries including the united states, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. these proposals, if finalized and adopted by the associated countries, will likely increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. as described in note 19, guarantees, indemnifications and warranties, during fiscal 2019, we executed a termination and mutual release agreement which terminated our tax matters agreement with hp inc. because we now have limited indemnity rights from hp inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. uncertainties in the interpretation and application of the 2017 tax cuts and jobs act could materially affect our tax obligations and effective tax rate. on december 22, 2017, the u.s. government enacted comprehensive federal tax legislation commonly referred to as the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act ). the tax act makes changes to the corporate tax rate, business-related deductions and taxation of foreign earnings, among others, that are generally effective for our taxable years beginning after october 31, 2017. the tax act requires complex computations to be performed that were not previously required by u.s. tax law, significant judgments to be made in interpretation of the provisions of the tax act, significant estimates in calculations, and the preparation and analysis of information not previously relevant or regularly produced. the u.s. treasury department and other standard-setting bodies will continue to interpret and issue guidance on how provisions of the tax act will be applied and administered. as future guidance is issued, we may make adjustments to amounts that we have previously recorded that may materially impact our financial statements in the period in which the adjustments are made. at this stage, it is unclear how many u.s. states will incorporate these federal law changes, or portions thereof, into their tax codes. the implementation by us of new practices and processes designed to comply with, and benefit from, the tax act and its rules and regulations could require us to make substantial changes to our business practices, allocate additional resources, and increase our costs, which could negatively affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or it services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. as a leading technology firm we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors and activist hackers (collectively, "malicious parties") who may be able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures and misappropriate, maliciously alter or destroy our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. malicious parties 21 table of contents also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain to embed malicious software or hardware in our products for use in compromising our customers. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our business may processes, store and transmits our client's data, including commercially sensitive and personal data, including personal data subject to the general data protection regulation ("gdpr"). breaches of our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data or personal data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts, wars and geopolitical uncertainties may seriously harm our business and revenue, costs and expenses and financial condition and stock price. terrorist acts, conflicts or wars (wherever located around the world) may cause damage or disruption to our business, our employees, facilities, partners, suppliers, distributors, resellers or customers or adversely affect our ability to manage logistics, operate our transportation and communication systems or conduct certain other critical business operations. the potential for future attacks, the national and international responses to attacks or perceived threats to national security, and other actual or potential conflicts or wars have created many economic and political uncertainties. in addition, as a major multinational company with headquarters and significant operations located in the united states, actions against or by the united states may impact our business or employees. although it is impossible to predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, if they occur, they could result in a decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain and result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions. we are predominantly uninsured for losses and interruptions caused by terrorist acts, conflicts and wars. our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations. for example, we are subject to laws and regulations concerning environmental protection, including laws addressing the energy performance of our products and operations, the discharge of pollutants, the management and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes, the clean-up of contaminated sites, the material content of our products and the recycling, as well as treatment and disposal of our products. in particular, we face increasing complexity in our product design and procurement operations as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the chemical and material composition of our products, their safe use, the energy consumption associated with those products, climate change laws and regulations and product take-back legislation. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, which may include restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions. our potential exposure includes fines and civil or criminal sanctions, third-party property damage, personal injury claims and clean-up costs. further, liability under some environmental laws relating to contaminated sites can be imposed retroactively, on a joint and several basis, and without any finding of noncompliance or fault. the amount and timing of costs to comply with environmental laws are difficult to predict. in addition, our business is subject to an ever growing number of laws addressing privacy and information security. in particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the 22 table of contents security of our offerings. if we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. our potential exposure includes regulatory fines and civil or criminal sanctions third-party claims and reputational damage. our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. hewlett packard enterprise's stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile. some of the factors that could affect our stock price are: speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community about, or actual changes in, our business, strategic position, market share, organizational structure, operations, financial condition, financial reporting and results, effectiveness of cost-cutting efforts, value or liquidity of our investments, exposure to market volatility, prospects, business combination or investment transactions, future stock price performance, board of directors, executive team, our competitors or our industry in general; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by hewlett packard enterprise or its competitors; quarterly increases or decreases in revenue, gross margin, earnings or cash flows, changes in estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by hewlett packard enterprise and variations between actual and estimated financial results; announcements of actual and anticipated financial results by hewlett packard enterprise's competitors and other companies in the it industry; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; and the timing and amount of share repurchases by hewlett packard enterprise. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hewlett packard enterprise's performance also may affect the price of hewlett packard enterprise's stock. for these reasons, investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. we currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services. despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. in addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. this collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. 23 table of contents to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. in addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. certain provisions in our amended and restated certificate of incorporation and amended and restated bylaws, and of delaware law, may prevent or delay an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise, which could decrease the trading price of our common stock. we have provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, each of which could have the effect of rendering more difficult or discouraging an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise deemed undesirable by our board of directors. these include provisions: authorizing blank check preferred stock, which we could issue with voting, liquidation, dividend and other rights superior to our common stock; limiting the liability of, and providing indemnification to, our directors and officers; specifying that our stockholders may take action only at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders and otherwise in accordance with our bylaws and limiting the ability of our stockholders to call special meetings; requiring advance notice of proposals by our stockholders for business to be conducted at stockholder meetings and for nominations of candidates for election to our board of directors; and controlling the procedures for conduct of our board of directors and stockholder meetings and election, appointment and removal of our directors. these provisions, alone or together, could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests and changes in control or management of hewlett packard enterprise. as a delaware corporation, we are also subject to provisions of delaware law, including section 203 of the delaware general corporation law, which prevents some stockholders from engaging in certain business combinations without approval of the holders of substantially all of our outstanding common stock. any provision of our certificate of incorporation or bylaws or delaware law that has the effect of delaying or deterring a change in control of hewlett packard enterprise could limit the opportunity for our stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of hewlett packard enterprise stock and also could affect the price that some investors are willing to pay for hewlett packard enterprise stock. risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment the stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment could result in significant tax liability, and dxc or micro focus (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our software segment were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a reorganization within the meaning of sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the code ); and (ii) the relevant merger as a reorganization within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. while the software separation generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, seattle spinco and micro focus, the acquisition of seattle spinco by micro focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for u.s. persons who received micro focus american depositary shares in the software separation. each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, everett spinco and csc, or us, seattle spinco and micro focus, as applicable. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the internal revenue service (the irs ) could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs and there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert a contrary position. if the distribution of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive everett spinco shares or seattle spinco shares in the 24 table of contents relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. we obtained private letter rulings from the irs regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our enterprise services business and software segment. those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the conclusions of the irs private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the irs private letter rulings may be affected. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and software segment, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and software segment in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. if the completed separation of our former enterprise services business or software segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or dxc and/or micro focus could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with everett spinco and csc, and with seattle spinco and micro focus, everett spinco and seattle spinco generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable. any such indemnity obligations could be material. risks related to the prior separation from former parent we continue to face a number of risks related to the separation from our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements, including, among others, the separation and distribution agreement, an employee matters agreement (the "employee matters agreement") and a real estate matters agreement (the "real estate matters agreement"). these agreements determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation for their respective areas and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. in these agreements, hp inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify hp inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of hp inc.'s business with hp inc. we are obligated to indemnify hp inc. against certain liabilities, including those primarily associated with our business activities and for any breaches of the separation and distribution agreement or any of the ancillary agreements. although hp inc. has agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, third parties could seek to hold us responsible for such liabilities, hp inc.'s insurers may attempt to deny us coverage for such liabilities and there can be no assurance that any such indemnity by hp inc. or its insurers will be sufficient to protect us from the full amount of liabilities incurred, and, even if sufficient, it is possible that we will need to temporarily bear the cost of such liability while pursuing judgment. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. potential liabilities may arise due to fraudulent transfer considerations, which would adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. in connection with the separation and distribution, our former parent undertook several corporate reorganization transactions involving its subsidiaries which, along with the separation and distribution, may be subject to federal and state fraudulent conveyance and transfer laws. if, under these laws, a court were to determine that, at the time of the separation and distribution, any entity involved in these reorganization transactions or the separation and distribution: was insolvent; was rendered insolvent by reason of the separation and distribution; had remaining assets constituting unreasonably small capital; or intended to incur, or believed it would incur, debts beyond its ability to pay these debts as they matured, then the court could void the separation and distribution, in whole or in part, as a fraudulent conveyance or transfer. the court could then require our stockholders to return to hp inc. some or all of the shares of hewlett packard enterprise common stock issued in the distribution, or require hp inc. or hewlett packard enterprise, as the case may be, to fund liabilities of the other company for the benefit of creditors. the measure of insolvency will vary depending upon the jurisdiction whose law is being applied. generally, however, an entity would be considered insolvent if the fair value of its assets was less than the amount of its liabilities, or if it incurred debt beyond its ability to repay the debt as it matures. 25 table of contents the allocation of intellectual property rights that was made between hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. as part of the separation, and the shared use of certain intellectual property rights following the separation, could in the future adversely impact our reputation, our ability to enforce certain intellectual property rights that are important to us and our competitive position. in connection with the separation, hp co. allocated to each of hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. the intellectual property assets relevant to their respective businesses. the terms of the separation include cross-licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the existing operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. as a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hp inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise. in addition, as a result of the allocation of intellectual property as part of the separation, hewlett packard enterprise no longer has ownership of intellectual property allocated to hp inc. and our resulting intellectual property ownership position could adversely affect our position and options relating to patent enforcement and patent licensing, our ability to sell our products or services and our competitive position in the industry. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in over 50 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2019 were the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and chinese yuan (renminbi). for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and, from time to time, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2019 and 2018, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2019 and 2018. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $31 million and $36 million at october 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued, our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar based floating or fixed interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, in circumstances where we believe additional fixed-rate debt would be beneficial, we may choose to terminate a previously executed swap, or swap certain floating interest payments to fixed. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments, by entering into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2019 and 2018, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2019 and 2018. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $39 million and $29 million at october 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. 56 table of contentsrisk factors 14 international our products and services are available worldwide. we believe geographic diversity allows us to meet demand on a worldwide basis for our customers, draws on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations, provides revenue streams that may offset geographic economic trends, and offers us an opportunity to access new markets for maturing products. a summary of our domestic and international results is set forth in note 3, "segment information", to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii. approximately 66% of our overall net revenue in fiscal 2020 came from outside the united states. 7 table of contents for a discussion of certain risks attendant to our international operations, see "risk factors due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition," and " we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates" in item 1a, "quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk" in item 7a of part ii and note 14, "financial instruments", to our consolidated financial statements in item 8 of part ii, which are incorporated herein by reference. research and development innovation is a key element of our culture and critical to our success. our research and development efforts ("r&amp;d") are focused on designing and developing products, services and solutions that anticipate customers' changing needs and desires and emerging technological trends. our efforts also are focused on identifying the areas where we believe we can make a unique contribution and where partnering with other leading technology companies will leverage our cost structure and maximize our customers' experiences. expenditures for r&amp;d were $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020, $1.8 billion in fiscal 2019 and $1.7 billion in fiscal 2018. we anticipate that we will continue to have significant r&amp;d expenditures in the future to support the design and development of innovative, high-quality products, services and solutions to maintain and enhance our competitive position. included in the r&amp;d work currently taking place at the company are the following initiatives: in compute, we are developing high quality next-generation compute solutions (servers, server attached options, and software) that integrate the latest industry technology, which coupled with innovations from hpe are aligned to the requirements of our customers. in hpc &amp; mcs, we are investing in high-performance compute, storage and networking systems for the most demanding workloads from the edge-to-core. investment in technologies in high-performance networking, memory-driven compute, and high-performance storage and data management underpin our differentiated offerings. we also invest significantly in software, including cloud native developer and highly scalable cluster operating environments, application and performance capabilities, and high-availability solutions. hpc &amp; mcs also hosts an applied research group where we invest in long term, disruptive r&amp;d such as silicon photonics creating a pipeline of technologies for future offerings. in the storage data management sphere, we are investing in new technologies to address the demand in mature and emerging markets. our comprehensive on-premises scalable infrastructure that includes an industry-first 100% guarantee offering, is being creatively augmented by an all-inclusive as-a-service hpe greenlake offering. the company continues to empower the edge-to-core data pipeline with embedded ai built-to-scale and to provide deep learning analytics across its entirety. in intelligent edge, we are shifting significant investment towards a "cloud first" innovation model for the comprehensive management of wireless, switching and software defined branch ("sd-branch") with the cloud native edge services platform ("esp"). another key investment priority is artificial intelligence based network operations for the end-to-end optimization of network performance and user experience, combined with securing the network edge infrastructure by segmenting the internet-of-things ("iot") user traffic with dynamic context based policies. in hewlett packard labs, we are focused on disruptive innovation and applied research in collaboration with other hpe business groups to deliver differentiated intellectual property ("ip"). our innovation agenda is focused on developing technologies in the areas of system architecture, networking, ai, accelerators and silicon photonics. we also continue to invest in our silicon design capability to accelerate the development and delivery of our technology with custom integrated circuits. for a discussion of risks attendant to our r&amp;d activities, see "risk factors if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer" in item 1a. patents our general policy is to seek patent protection for those inventions likely to be incorporated into our products and services or where obtaining such proprietary rights will improve our competitive position. as of october 31, 2020, our worldwide patent portfolio included approximate ly 15,000 issued and pending patents. patents generally have a term of up to 20 years from the date they are filed. as our patent portfolio has been built over time, the remaining terms of the individual patents across our patent portfolio vary. we believe that our patents and patent applications are important for maintaining the competitive differentiation of our products and services, enhancing our freedom of action to sell our products and services in markets in which we choose to participate, and maximizing our return on research 8 table of contents and development investments. no single patent is in itself essential to our company as a whole or to any of our business segments. in addition to developing our patent portfolio, we license intellectual property from third parties as we deem appropriate. we have also granted and continue to grant to others licenses and other rights under our patents when we consider these arrangements to be in our interest. these license arrangements include a number of cross-licenses with third parties. for a discussion of risks attendant to intellectual property rights, see "risk factors our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend" and " our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties" in item 1a. backlog in fiscal 2020 the outbreak of covid-19 resulted in a disruption to our supply chain process. the outbreak resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity including worldwide travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential work activities, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. these events introduced a disruption to our supply chain at the beginning of the calendar year resulting in significantly higher levels of backlog, particularly in compute, hpc &amp; mcs, and storage as lockdown restrictions imposed across the globe disrupted our order fulfillment process and limited our ability to perform on-site installations and meet customer acceptance requirements. subsequently, by the latter part of the fiscal period we made significant progress in clearing our backlog such that we exited the fiscal year with normalized backlog levels. during the covid-19 pandemic, we have also viewed backlog as an indication of demand health as governments around the world continue to impose restrictions on non-essential work activities and travel. as and when the covid-19 pandemic subsides our focus on backlog may again become less relevant as a reliable indicator of future demand. for a further discussion of the risks, uncertainties and actions taken in response to covid-19, see risks identified in the section entitled "risk factors" in item 1a, and the "covid-19 update" in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7. seasonality general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. from time to time, the markets in which we sell our products, services and solutions experience weak economic conditions that may negatively affect sales. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products and services. for example, european sales are often weaker in the summer mont hs. however, the impact of the covid-19 outbreak may result in temporary changes to the seasonal fluctuation of our business. see "risk factors our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable" in item 1a. competition we have a broad technology portfolio of enterprise it infrastructure products, solutions and services. we encounter strong competition in all areas of our business. we compete primarily on the basis of technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, range of products and services, ease of use of our products, account relationships, customer training, service and support, security, and the availability of our it infrastructure offerings. the markets in which we compete are characterized by strong competition among major corporations with long-established positions and a large number of new and rapidly growing firms. most product life cycles are relatively short, and to remain competitive we must develop new products and services, continuously enhance our existing products and services and compete effectively on the basis of the factors listed above, among others. in addition, we compete with many of our current and potential partners, including oems that design, manufacture and market their products under their own brand names. our successful management of these competitive partner relationships is critical to our future success. moreover, we anticipate that we will have to continue to adjust prices on many of our products and services to stay competitive. 9 table of contents the competitive environments in which each segment operates are described below: the compute and storage businesses operate in the highly competitive enterprise data center infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors are technology vendors such as dell technologies inc., cisco systems, inc., lenovo group ltd., international business machines corporation, and netapp inc. in certain regions, we also experience competition from local companies and from generically branded or "white-box" manufacturers. our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. the hpc &amp; mcs business predominantly services customers with data-intensive super-computing, analytics, and artificial intelligence needs. our primary competitors are compute technology vendors than can design and build solutions that deliver performance scalability and connectivity necessary to handle super-compute and artificial intelligence ("ai") workloads, including dell technologies inc., lenovo group ltd., and international business machines corporation. similar to the compute space, our strategy is to deliver superior products, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantages include our deep expertise and capabilities designing and delivering these solutions, broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities. the a &amp; ps business predominantly delivers digital transformation expertise to customers. the strategy of the business is to partner with customers to prioritize, define and implement the technology transformations that will achieve customers' digital transformation goals. the business has practice areas in digital transformation advisory, hybrid cloud transformation, ai and data, networking &amp; edge, security, iot, digital workplaces, education and management of change. our primary competitors for this business are the consulting services arms of major technology vendors such as international business machines corporation, dell technologies inc., cisco systems, inc., and accenture. intelligent edge operates in the highly competitive networking and connectivity infrastructure market, which is characterized by rapid and ongoing technological innovation and price competition. our primary competitors are technology vendors such as cisco systems, inc., extreme networks, inc., juniper networks, inc., and arista networks inc. our strategy is to deliver superior enterprise wired and wireless local-area networking components and software, high-value technology support services and differentiated integrated solutions that combine our infrastructure, software and services capabilities. our competitive advantage includes our broad end-to-end solutions portfolio, supported by our strong intellectual property portfolio and research and development capabilities, coupled with our global reach and partner ecosystem. financial services. in our financing business, our primary competitors are captive financing companies, such as ibm global financing, dell financial services, and cisco capital, as well as banks and other financial institutions. our primary it asset disposition (itad) competitors are eri, ingram micro, sage sustainable electronics, and sims recycling solutions. we believe our competitive advantage over banks, other financial institutions, and itad providers is our ability to bring together our investment solutions with our expertise in managing technology assets. not only are we able to deliver investment solutions that help customers create unique technology deployments based on specific business needs, but we also help them extract value from existing it investments while more efficiently managing the retirement of those assets. all of these solutions can help customers accelerate digital transformation, create new budget streams, and meet circular economy objectives. for a discussion of certain risks attendant to these competitive environments, see "risk factors we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance" in item 1a. material government regulations our business activities are worldwide and are subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and our products and services are governed by a number of rules and regulations. costs and accruals incurred to comply with these governmental regulations are presently not material to our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position. although there is no assurance that existing or future government laws applicable to our operations, services or products will not have a material adverse effect on our capital expenditures, results of operations and competitive position, we do not currently anticipate material expenditures for government regulations. nonetheless, as discussed below, we believe that environmental and global trade regulations could potentially materially impact our business. environment our products and operations are, or may in the future be, subject to various federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations concerning the environment, including, among others, laws addressing the discharge of pollutants into the air and water; the management, movement, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes and the clean-up of contaminated sites; 10 table of contents product safety, such as chemical composition, packaging and labeling; energy consumption of our products and services; and the manufacture and distribution of chemical substances. we are also subject to legislation in an increasing number of jurisdictions that makes producers of electrical goods, including servers and networking equipment, financially responsible for specified collection, recycling, treatment, and disposal of past and future covered products (sometimes referred to as "product take-back legislation"). finally, as climate change laws, regulations, treaties, and similar initiatives and programs are adopted and implemented throughout the world, we will be required to comply or potentially face market access limitations or other sanctions, including fines. however, we believe that technology will be fundamental to finding solutions to achieve compliance with and manage those requirements, and we are collaborating with industry, business groups and governments to find and promote ways that our technology can be used to address climate change and to facilitate compliance with related laws, regulations and treaties. we are committed to maintaining compliance with all environmental laws applicable to our operations, products and services, and to reducing our environmental impact across all aspects of our business. we meet this commitment with a comprehensive environmental, health and safety policy, strict environmental management of our operations and worldwide environmental programs and services. global trade as a global company, the import and export of our products and services are subject to laws and regulations including international treaties, u.s. export controls and sanctions laws, customs regulations, and local trade rules around the world. such laws, rules and regulations may delay the introduction of some of our products or impact our competitiveness through restricting our ability to do business in certain places or with certain entities and individuals, or the need to comply with domestic preference programs, laws concerning transfer and disclosure of sensitive or controlled technology or source code, unique technical standards, localization mandates, and duplicative in-country testing and inspection requirements. the consequences of any failure to comply with domestic and foreign trade regulations could limit our ability to conduct business globally. we continue to support open trade policies that recognize the importance of integrated cross-border supply chains that will continue to contribute to the growth of the global economy and measures that standardize compliance for manufacturers to ensure that products comply with safety and security requirements. for a discussion of the risks associated with government regulations that may materially impact us, please see the section entitled "risk factors" in item 1a. additional information itanium is a trademark of intel corporation or its subsidiaries. information about our executive officers the following are our current executive officers: name age position antonio neri 53 president and chief executive officer tom black 51 senior vice president, general manager of storage kirt p. karros 51 senior vice president, finance and treasurer neil macdonald 52 senior vice president, general manager of compute alan may 62 executive vice president and chief people officer keerti melkote 50 president, intelligent edge jeff t. ricci 59 senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer tarek robbiati 55 executive vice president and chief financial officer irv rothman 74 president and chief executive officer, hpe financial services john f. schultz 56 executive vice president, chief operating and legal officer peter ungaro 52 senior vice president, general manager of high performance compute and mission-critical systems and hewlett packard labs antonio neri; president and chief executive officer mr. neri has served as our president and chief executive officer since june 2017 and february 2018, respectively. mr. neri previously served as executive vice president and general manager of our enterprise group from november 2015 to june 2017. prior to that, mr. neri served in a similar role for hp co.'s enterprise group from october 2014 to november 2015. mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp servers business unit from september 2013 to october 2014 and concurrently as senior vice president and general manager of the hp networking business unit from may 11 table of contents 2014 to october 2014. prior to that, mr. neri served as senior vice president and general manager of the hp technology services business unit from august 2011 to september 2013 and as vice president, customer services for the hp personal systems group from 2007 to august 2011, having first joined hp co. in 1996. from march 2012 to february 2013, mr. neri served as a director of mphasis limited, an india-based technology company. tom black; senior vice president, general manager of storage mr. black has served as senior vice president and general manager of our storage business segment since december 2019. prior to that, mr. black served as senior vice president and general manager of switching within our intelligent edge business segment from october 2018 to december 2019. from january 2016 to october 2018, mr. black served as the vice president and general manager of switching within our intelligent edge business. from june 2013 to january 2016, mr. black was the vice president of engineering for the networking group at hp co., and later, at hpe. prior to that, mr. black served in various roles, including vice president of engineering and other engineering positions at cisco systems from november 1999 to may 2013. kirt p. karros; senior vice president, finance and treasurer mr. karros has served as our senior vice president, finance and treasurer since november 2015. prior to that, mr. karros served in a similar role at hp co. and led its investor relations from may 2015 to october 2015. mr. karros previously served as principal and managing director of research for relational investors llc, an investment fund, from 2001 to may 2015 and concurrently as a director of pmc-sierra, a semiconductor company, from august 2013 to may 2015 and as a director of innerworkings, inc. from august 2019 to october 2020. neil macdonald; senior vice president, general manager of compute mr. macdonald has served as senior vice president and general manager of our compute business segment since february 2020. prior to that, mr. macdonald served as senior vice president and general manager of the compute solutions group of the then hybrid it business segment, from october 2018 to february 2020. mr. macdonald previously served as vice president and general manager of bladesystem from august 2015 to october 2020, having first joined hp co. in 1996. alan may; executive vice president and chief people officer mr. may has served as our executive vice president, chief people officer since june 2015. before joining hewlett packard enterprise, mr. may served as vice president, human resources at boeing commercial aircraft, a division of the boeing company, from april 2013 to june 2015. prior to that, mr. may served as vice president, human resources for boeing defense, space and security at boeing from april 2011 to june 2015 and as vice president, compensation, benefits and strategy at boeing from august 2007 to april 2011. mr. may has also served in senior human resources roles at cerberus capital management and pepsico. he serves as a trustee for the american foundation for the blind and is on the board of governors for the san francisco symphony. keerti melkote; president, intelligent edge mr. melkote has served as president of our intelligent edge business segment since january 2017. mr. melkote previously served as chief technology officer of intelligent edge from may 2015 to december 2016. prior to that, mr. melkote performed a similar role as chief technology officer and co-founder of aruba networks from february 2009 until our acquisition of aruba networks in may 2015. previously, mr. melkote served as co-founder and vice president, products at aruba networks from february 2002 to january 2009. jeff t. ricci; senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer mr. ricci has served as our senior vice president, controller and principal accounting officer since november 2015. prior to that, mr. ricci performed a similar role at hp co. from april 2014 to november 2015. mr. ricci served as controller and principal accounting officer at hp co. on an interim basis from november 2013 to april 2014. previously, mr. ricci served as vice president, finance for several of hp co.'s organizations, including technology and operations from may 2012 to november 2013, global accounts and hp financial services from march 2011 to may 2012, and hp software from march 2009 to march 2011. tarek robbiati; executive vice president and chief financial officer mr. robbiati has served as our executive vice president, chief financial officer since september 2018. before joining hewlett packard enterprise, mr. robbiati served as chief financial officer of sprint corporation from august 2015 to february 2018. mr. robbiati previously served as chief executive officer and managing director of flexigroup limited in australia from january 2013 to august 2015. prior to that, from december 2009 to december 2012, mr. robbiati was group 12 table of contents managing director and president of telstra international group in hong kong and executive chairman of hong kong csl limited ("csl"), a subsidiary of telstra corporation limited. from july 2007 to may 2010, mr. robbiati served as the chief executive officer of csl in hong kong. irv rothman; president and chief executive officer, hpe financial services mr. rothman has served as president and chief executive officer of our financial services business segment, our it investment and financing subsidiary, since november 2015. prior to that, mr. rothman served in a similar role at hp co. from may 2002 to november 2015. prior to joining hp co., mr. rothman was president and chief executive officer of compaq financial services corporation from january 1997 to april 2002. john f. schultz; executive vice president, chief operating and legal officer mr. schultz has served as our executive vice president, chief operating and legal officer since july 2020. prior to that, he served as executive vice president, chief legal and administrative officer and secretary from december 2017 to july 2020. mr. schultz previously served as executive vice president, general counsel and secretary from november 2015 to december 2017, performing a similar role at hp co. from april 2012 to november 2015. prior to that, mr. schultz served as deputy general counsel for litigation, investigations and global functions at hp co. from september 2008 to april 2012. prior to joining hp co., mr. schultz was a partner in the litigation practice at morgan, lewis &amp; bockius llp, a law firm, from march 2005 to september 2008, where, among other clients, he supported hp co. as external counsel on a variety of litigation and regulatory matters. peter ungaro; senior vice president, general manager of high performance compute and mission-critical systems and hewlett packard labs mr. ungaro has served as senior vice president and general manager of our high performance compute and mission critical systems business segment and hewlett packard labs since september 2019. prior to that, mr. ungaro was president and chief executive officer of cray from 2005 until our acquisition of cray in september 2019. from september 2004 until march 2005, mr. ungaro served as senior vice president of sales, marketing, and services at cray and, from august 2003 until september 2004, he served as vice president of sales and marketing at cray. before joining cray in 2003, ungaro served as vice president of sales for worldwide deep computing at ibm. mr. ungaro held a variety of other sales leadership positions since joining ibm in 1991. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available on our website at http://investors.hpe.com, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such reports with, or furnish those reports to, the securities and exchange commission. hewlett packard enterprise's corporate governance guidelines, board of directors' committee charters (including the charters of the audit committee, finance and investment committee, hr and compensation committee, technology committee, and nominating, governance and social responsibility committee) and code of ethics entitled "standards of business conduct" are also available at that same location on our website. stockholders may request free printed copies of these documents from: hewlett packard enterprise company attention: investor relations 11445 compaq center west drive houston, texas 77070 http://investors.hpe.com/financial/requested-printed-reports 13 table of contents item 1a. risk factors. you should carefully consider the following risks and other information in this form 10-k in evaluating hewlett packard enterprise and its common stock. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our results of operations or financial condition. the following risk factors should be read in conjunction with part ii, item 7, "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operation" and the consolidated financial statements and related notes in part ii, item 8, "financial statements and supplementary data" of this form 10-k. business and operational risks we are unable to predict the extent to which the global covid-19 pandemic may adversely impact our business operations, financial performance and results of operations. the covid-19 pandemic and efforts to control its spread have significantly curtailed the movement of people, goods and services worldwide, including in most or all of the regions in which we sell our products and services and conduct our business operations. the pandemic has resulted in a global slowdown of economic activity, including travel restrictions, prohibitions of non-essential activities in some cases, disruption and shutdown of businesses and greater uncertainty in global financial markets. our operations have been affected by a range of external factors related to the covid-19 pandemic that are not within our control, including the various restrictions imposed by cities, counties, states and countries on our employees, customers, partners and suppliers designed to limit the spread of covid-19. although the immediate impacts of the covid-19 pandemic have been assessed, the long-term magnitude and duration of the disruption and resulting decline in business activity is still highly uncertain and cannot currently be predicted. in response to the covid-19 pandemic and to ensure the safety of our employees, we have implemented a global work-from-home policy until further notice that applies to a significant majority of our employees, with the exception of those performing essential activities. our employees may elect to return to the office in jurisdictions where both local requirements and our own health and safety standards have been met. if such instances occur, employees would return to the office in a phased process. moreover, certain industry and customer events that we sponsor or at which we present have been canceled, postponed or moved to virtual-only experiences and we may deem it advisable to similarly alter, postpone or cancel entirely additional events in the future. we are also seeing an increase in customer requirements for hpe employees to be tested for covid-19 before being able to enter customer sites, which could potentially present an operational challenge. however, work-from-home and other modified business practices introduce additional operational risks, including cybersecurity risks, which may result in inefficiencies or delays, and have affected the way we conduct our product development, sales, customer support and other activities. unanticipated disruptions in services provided through our localized physical infrastructure caused by the covid-19 pandemic can curtail the functioning of critical components of our it systems, and adversely affect our ability to fulfill orders, provide services, respond to customer requests and maintain our worldwide business operations. the pandemic has adversely affected, and could continue to adversely affect, our business, by negatively impacting the demand for our products and services; restricting our operations and sales, marketing and distribution efforts; disrupting the supply chains of hardware products; and disrupting our research and development capabilities, engineering, design and manufacturing processes and other important business activities. for example, we expect the conditions caused by the covid-19 pandemic could affect the rate of it spending, impact our customers' ability or willingness to purchase our products and services, delay prospective customers' purchasing decisions, delay the provisioning of our products and services, lengthen payment terms, reduce the value or duration of subscription contracts or affect attrition rates, all of which could adversely affect our sales, operating results and financial performance. there have been, and likely will continue to be, delays of components shipments from our vendors in china and other jurisdictions in which normal business operations are disrupted. we expect the covid-19 pandemic could continue to have a negative impact on our sales and our results of operations, the size and duration of which we are currently unable to predict. while such changes were factored into the forecast used to assess assets for reserves and impairment, including goodwill, and to calculate the annualized effective tax rate during the interim quarters of fiscal 2020, any changes to the profitability for the next fiscal year could impact the realizability of assets and the annualized effective tax rate applied to earnings. additionally, concerns over the economic impact of the covid-19 pandemic have caused extreme volatility in financial and other capital markets which has and may continue to adversely impact our stock price, our ability to access capital markets and our ability to fund liquidity needs. in response, we announced our long-term cost optimization and prioritization plan to focus our investments and realign our workforce to areas of growth combined with short-term cost saving measures, including temporary base salary adjustments or unpaid leave for certain employees and hiring and salary freezes. execution of the plan may not achieve the results and savings we anticipate and our temporary cost saving measures may negatively affect employee morale and our future recruiting efforts. to the extent the covid-19 pandemic adversely affects our business and financial results, it may also have the effect of heightening many of the other risks described in this "risk factors" section and those incorporated by reference herein, such as 14 table of contents those related to our products and services, demand and distribution, financial performance, credit rating and debt obligations. given that developments concerning the covid-19 pandemic have been constantly evolving, additional impacts and risks may arise that we are not aware of or able to appropriately respond to at this time. business disruptions could seriously harm our future revenue and financial condition and increase our costs and expenses. our worldwide operations and supply chain could be disrupted by natural or human induced disasters including, but not limited to, earthquakes; tsunamis; floods; hurricanes, cyclones or typhoons; fires; other extreme weather conditions; power or water shortages; telecommunications failures; materials scarcity and price volatility; terrorist acts, conflicts or wars; and medical epidemics or pandemics. we are predominantly self-insured to mitigate the impact of most catastrophic events. although it is impossible to completely predict the occurrences or consequences of any such events, forecasting disruptive events and building additional resiliency into our operations accordingly will become an increasing business imperative. the occurrence of business disruptions could result in significant losses, seriously harm our revenue, profitability and financial condition, adversely affect our competitive position, increase our costs and expenses, decrease in demand for our products, make it difficult or impossible to provide services or deliver products to our customers or to receive components from our suppliers, create delays and inefficiencies in our supply chain, result in the need to impose employee travel restrictions and require substantial expenditures and recovery time in order to fully resume operations. climate change serves as a risk multiplier increasing both the frequency and severity of natural disasters that may affect our worldwide business operations. our corporate headquarters and a portion of our research and development activities are located in california, which suffers from drought conditions and catastrophic wildfires affecting the health and safety of our employees. to mitigate wildfire risk, electric utilities are deploying public safety power shutoffs (psps), which affects electricity reliability to our facilities and our communities. other critical business operations and some of our suppliers are located in california and asia, near major earthquake faults known for seismic activity. in 2017, our principal worldwide it data centers in houston were flooded due hurricane harvey. since then, hpe has increased its resiliency through site selection infrastructure technological investments to mitigate and adapt to physical risks from climate change. the manufacture of product components, the final assembly of our products and other critical operations are concentrated in certain geographic locations, including the united states, czech republic, mexico, china and singapore. we also rely on major logistics hubs, which are strategically located near manufacturing facilities in the major regions and in proximity to hpe's distribution channels and customers. our operations could be adversely affected if manufacturing, logistics or other operations in these locations are disrupted for any reason, including natural disasters, it system failures, military actions or economic, business, labor, environmental, public health, regulatory or political issues. the ultimate impact on us, our significant suppliers and our general infrastructure of being located near vulnerable locations is continuing to be assessed. u.s. trade policy, including the imposition of tariffs and the resulting consequences, may have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. given the change in the u.s. presidential administration, we face uncertainty with regard to u.s. government trade policy. current u.s. government trade policy includes the imposition of tariffs on certain foreign goods, including information and communication technology products. these measures may materially increase costs for goods imported into the united states. this in turn could require us to materially increase prices to our customers which may reduce demand, or, if we are unable to increase prices, result in lowering our margin on products sold. u.s. government trade policy has resulted in, and could result in more, u.s. trading partners adopting responsive trade policy making it more difficult or costly for us to export our products to those countries. our transition to a subscription-based business model may adversely affect our business, operating results and free cash flow. we are currently transitioning to an as-a-service company, providing our entire portfolio through a range of subscription-based, pay-per-use and as-a-service offerings. we will also continue to provide our hardware and software in a capital expenditure and license-based model, ultimately giving our customers choice in consuming hpe products and services in a traditional or as-a-service offering. such business model changes entail significant risks and uncertainties, and we may be unable to complete the transition to a subscription-based business model, or manage the transition successfully and in a timely manner; and our ability to accurately forecast our future operating results may be adversely affected. additionally, we may not realize all of the anticipated benefits of the subscription transition, even if we successfully complete the transition. the transition to a subscription-based business model also means that our historical results, especially those achieved before we began the transition, may not be indicative of our future results. further, as customer demand for our consumption model offerings increases, we will experience differences in the timing of revenue recognition between our traditional offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized at the time of delivery) and our as-a-service offerings (for which revenue is generally recognized ratably over the term of the arrangement). 15 table of contents in addition, the transition to an as-a-service company is expected to require incremental capital requirements, resulting in a negative impact to cash flows in the near term, and may require us to dedicate additional resources, including sales and marketing costs. furthermore, we anticipate needing to redesign our go-to-market structure, to better align with the subscription-based business model. there is no assurance that we will be able to successfully implement these adjustments in a timely or cost-effective manner, or that we will be able to realize all or any of the expected benefits from such adjustments. we depend on third-party suppliers, and our financial results could suffer if we fail to manage our supplier relationships properly. our operations depend on our ability to anticipate our needs for components, products and services, as well as our suppliers' ability to deliver sufficient quantities of quality components, products and services at reasonable prices and in time for us to meet critical schedules for the delivery of our own products and services. given the wide variety of solutions that we offer, the large and diverse distribution of our suppliers and contract manufacturers, and the long lead times required to manufacture, assemble and deliver certain solutions, problems could arise in production, planning and inventory management that could seriously harm our business. in addition, our ongoing efforts to optimize the efficiency of our supply chain could cause supply disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming and resource-intensive than expected. furthermore, certain of our suppliers may decide to discontinue conducting business with us. other supplier problems that we could face include component shortages, excess supply, and contractual, relational and labor risks, each of which is described below. component shortages. we may experience a shortage of, or a delay in receiving, certain components as a result of strong demand, capacity constraints, supplier financial weaknesses, the inability of suppliers to borrow funds in the credit markets, disputes with suppliers (some of whom are also our customers), disruptions in the operations of component suppliers, other problems experienced by suppliers or problems faced during the transition to new suppliers. if shortages or delays persist, the price of certain components may increase, we may be exposed to quality issues, or the components may not be available at all. we may not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable quality to build products or provide services in a timely manner in the quantities needed or according to our specifications. accordingly, our business and financial performance could suffer if we lose time-sensitive sales, incur additional freight costs or are unable to pass on price increases to our customers. if we cannot adequately address supply issues, we might have to reengineer some product or service offerings, which could result in further costs and delays. excess supply. in order to secure components for our products or services, at times we may make advance payments to suppliers or enter into non-cancelable commitments with vendors. in addition, we may purchase components strategically in advance of demand to take advantage of favorable pricing or to address concerns about the availability of future components. if we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, a temporary oversupply could result in excess or obsolete components, which could adversely affect our business and financial performance. contractual terms. as a result of binding long-term price or purchase commitments with vendors, we may be obligated to purchase components or services at prices that are higher than those available in the current market and be limited in our ability to respond to changing market conditions. if we commit to purchasing components or services for prices in excess of the then-current market price, we may be at a disadvantage to competitors who have access to components or services at lower prices, our gross margin could suffer, and we could incur additional charges relating to inventory obsolescence. any of these developments could adversely affect our future results of operations and financial condition. contingent workers. we also rely on third-party suppliers for the provision of contingent workers, and our failure to manage our use of such workers effectively could adversely affect our results of operations. we have been exposed to various legal claims relating to the status of contingent workers in the past and could face similar claims in the future. we may be subject to shortages, oversupply or fixed contractual terms relating to contingent workers. our ability to manage the size of, and costs associated with, the contingent workforce may be subject to additional constraints imposed by local laws. single-source suppliers. we obtain certain components from single-source suppliers due to technology, availability, price, quality, scale or customization needs. replacing a single-source supplier could delay production of some products as replacement suppliers may initially be unable to meet demand or be subject to other output limitations. for some components, such as customized components, alternative sources either may not exist or may be unable to produce the quantities of those components necessary to satisfy our production requirements. in addition, we sometimes purchase components from single-source suppliers under short-term agreements that contain favorable pricing and other terms but that may be unilaterally modified or terminated by the supplier with limited notice and with little or no penalty. the performance of such single-source suppliers under those agreements (and the renewal or extension of those agreements upon similar terms) may affect the quality, quantity and price of our components. the loss of a single-source supplier, the deterioration of our relationship with a single-source supplier or any unilateral modification to the contractual terms under which we are supplied components by a single-source supplier could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 16 table of contents we may not achieve some or all of the expected benefits of our restructuring plans and our periodic restructuring programs can be disruptive to our business. we have announced restructuring plans, including the hpe next initiative and the cost optimization and prioritization plan in order to realign our cost structure due to the changing nature of our business and to achieve operating efficiencies that we expect to reduce costs, as well as simplify our organizational structure, upgrade our it infrastructure and redesign business processes. we may not be able to obtain the cost savings and benefits that were initially anticipated in connection with our restructuring. additionally, as a result of restructuring initiatives, we may experience a loss of continuity, loss of accumulated knowledge and/or inefficiency during transitional periods. reorganization and restructuring can require a significant amount of management and other employees' time and focus, which may divert attention from operating and growing our business. if we fail to achieve some or all of the expected benefits of restructuring, it could have a material adverse effect on our competitive position, business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. for more information about our restructuring plans, the hpe next initiative and the cost optimization and prioritization plan, see note 4, "transformation programs", to the consolidated financial statements. any failure by us to identify, manage and complete acquisitions and subsequent integrations, divestitures and other significant transactions successfully could harm our financial results, business and prospects. as part of our strategy, we may acquire businesses, divest businesses or assets, enter into strategic alliances and joint ventures, and make investments to further our business, (collectively, "business combination and investment transactions") and handle any post-closing issues such as integration. for example, in september 2020, we acquired silver peak systems, inc., an sd-wan industry leader and in september 2019, we acquired cray inc., a global supercomputer leader. in april 2017 and september 2017, we spun off our enterprise services and software businesses, respectively. see also the risk factors below under the heading "risks related to the separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment". risks associated with business combination and investment transactions include the following, any of which could adversely affect our financial results, including our effective tax rate: we may not successfully combine product or service offerings or fully realize all of the anticipated benefits of any particular business combination and investment transaction, which may result in (1) failure to retain employees, customers, distributors, and suppliers; (2) increase in unanticipated delays or failure to meet contractual obligations which may cause financial results to differ from expectations; and (3) significant increase in costs and expenses, including those related to severance pay, early retirement costs, employee benefit costs, charges from the elimination of duplicative facilities and contracts, inventory adjustments, assumed litigation and other liabilities, legal, accounting and financial advisory fees, and required payments to executive officers and key employees under retention plans. our ability to conduct due diligence with respect to business combination and investment transactions, and our ability to evaluate the results of such due diligence, is dependent upon the veracity and completeness of statements and disclosures made or actions taken by third parties or their representatives. we may fail to identify significant issues with the acquired company's product quality, financial disclosures, accounting practices or internal control deficiencies or all of the factors necessary to estimate accurately our costs, timing and other matters. in order to complete a business combination and investment transaction, we may issue common stock, potentially creating dilution for our existing stockholders or we may enter into financing arrangements, which could affect our liquidity and financial condition. business combination and investment transactions may lead to litigation, which could impact our financial condition and results of operations. we have incurred and will incur additional depreciation and amortization expense over the useful lives of certain assets acquired in connection with business combination and investment transactions and, to the extent that the value of goodwill or intangible assets acquired in connection with a business combination and investment transaction becomes impaired, we may be required to incur additional material charges relating to the impairment of those assets. for a divestiture, we may encounter difficulty in finding buyers or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less desirable than we had anticipated. the impact of divestiture on our revenue growth may be larger than projected, as we may experience greater dis-synergies than expected. if we do not satisfy pre-closing conditions and necessary regulatory and governmental approvals on acceptable terms, it may prevent us from completing the transaction. dispositions may also involve continued financial involvement in the divested business, such as through continuing equity ownership, guarantees, indemnities or other financial obligations. under these arrangements, performance by the divested businesses or other conditions outside of our control could affect our future financial results. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could make it difficult or discourage an acquisition of hewlett packard enterprise if our board of directors deems it to be undesirable. provisions such as indemnification, meeting 17 table of contents requirements, and blank check stock authorizations could deter or delay hostile takeovers, proxy contests, or changes in control or management of hewlett packard enterprise. management's attention, or other resources, may be diverted if we fail to successfully complete or integrate business combination and investment transactions that further our strategic objectives. system security risks, data protection breaches, cyberattacks and systems integration issues could disrupt our internal operations or it services provided to customers, and any such disruption could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. as a leading technology firm we are exposed to attacks from criminals, nation state actors and activist hackers (collectively, "malicious parties") who may be able to circumvent or bypass our cyber security measures and misappropriate, maliciously alter or destroy our confidential information or that of third parties, create system disruptions or cause shutdowns. malicious parties also may be able to develop and deploy viruses, worms, ransomware and other malicious software programs that attack our products or otherwise exploit any security vulnerabilities of our products. malicious parties may compromise our manufacturing supply chain to embed malicious software or hardware in our products for use in compromising our customers. in addition, sophisticated hardware and operating system software and applications that we produce or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture, including flaws that could unexpectedly interfere with the operation of the system. the costs to us to eliminate or alleviate cyber or other security problems, including bugs, viruses, worms, malicious software programs and other security vulnerabilities, could be significant, and our efforts to address these problems may not be successful and could result in interruptions, delays, cessation of service and loss of existing or potential customers that may impede our sales, manufacturing, distribution or other critical functions. we manage and store various proprietary information and sensitive or confidential data relating to our business. in addition, our business may process, store and transmit our clients' data, including commercially sensitive and personal data, subject to the european general data protection regulation and other privacy laws. breaches of our cyber or physical security measures or the accidental loss, inadvertent disclosure or unapproved dissemination of proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data or personal data about us, our clients or our customers, including the potential loss or disclosure of such information or data as a result of fraud, trickery or other forms of deception, could expose us, our customers or the individuals affected to a risk of loss (including regulatory fines) or misuse of this information, result in litigation and potential liability for us, damage our brand and reputation or otherwise harm our business. we also could lose existing or potential customers of services or other it solutions or incur significant expenses in connection with our customers' system failures or any actual or perceived security vulnerabilities in our products and services. in addition, the cost and operational consequences of implementing further data protection measures could be significant. portions of our it infrastructure also may experience interruptions, delays or cessations of service or produce errors in connection with systems integration or migration work that takes place from time to time. we may not be successful in implementing new systems and transitioning data, which could cause business disruptions and be more expensive, time-consuming, disruptive and resource intensive. such disruptions could adversely impact our ability to fulfill orders and respond to customer requests and interrupt other processes. delayed sales, lower margins or lost customers resulting from these disruptions could reduce our revenue, increase our expenses, damage our reputation and adversely affect our stock price. if we cannot successfully execute our go-to-market strategy and continue to develop, manufacture and market innovative products, services and solutions, our business and financial performance may suffer. our long-term strategy is focused on leveraging our portfolio of hardware, software and services as we deliver global edge to cloud platform-as-a-service to help customers accelerate outcomes by unlocking value from all of their data, everywhere. hpe delivers unique, open and intelligent technology solutions, with a consistent experience across all clouds and edge computing platforms. to successfully execute this strategy, we must address business model shifts and optimize go-to-market execution by improving cost structure, aligning sales coverage with strategic goals, improving channel execution and strengthening our capabilities in our areas of strategic focus, while continuing to pursue new product innovation that builds on our strategic capabilities in areas such as cloud and data center computing, software-defined networking, converged storage, high-performance compute, and wireless networking. any failure to successfully execute this strategy, including any failure to invest sufficiently in strategic growth areas, could adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. the process of developing new high-technology products, software, services and solutions and enhancing existing hardware and software products, services and solutions is complex, costly and uncertain, and any failure by us to anticipate customers' changing needs and emerging technological trends accurately could significantly harm our market share, results of operations and financial condition. for example, as the transition to an environment characterized by cloud-based computing and software being delivered as a service progresses, we must continue to successfully develop and deploy cloud-based solutions for our customers. we must make long-term investments, develop or obtain and protect appropriate intellectual 18 table of contents property, and commit significant research and development and other resources before knowing whether our predictions will accurately reflect customer demand for our products, services and solutions. any failure to accurately predict technological and business trends, control research and development costs or execute our innovation strategy could harm our business and financial performance. our research and development initiatives may not be successful in whole or in part, including research and development projects which we have prioritized with respect to funding and/or personnel. after we develop a product, we must be able to manufacture appropriate volumes quickly while also managing costs and preserving margins. to accomplish this, we must accurately forecast volumes, mixes of products and configurations that meet customer requirements, and we may not succeed at doing so within a given product's life cycle or at all. any delay in the development, production or marketing of a new product, service or solution could result in us not being among the first to market, which could further harm our competitive position. if we cannot continue to produce quality products and services, our reputation, business and financial performance may suffer . in the course of conducting our business, we must adequately address quality issues associated with our products, services and solutions, including defects in our engineering, design and manufacturing processes and unsatisfactory performance under service contracts, as well as defects in third-party components included in our products and unsatisfactory performance or even malicious acts by third-party contractors or subcontractors or their employees. in order to address quality issues, we work extensively with our customers and suppliers and engage in product testing to determine the causes of problems and to develop and implement appropriate solutions. however, the products, services and solutions that we offer are complex, and our regular testing and quality control efforts may not be effective in controlling or detecting all quality issues or errors, particularly with respect to faulty components manufactured by third parties. if we are unable to determine the cause, find an appropriate solution or offer a temporary fix (or "patch") to address quality issues with our products, we may delay shipment to customers, which could delay revenue recognition and receipt of customer payments and could adversely affect our revenue, cash flows and profitability. in addition, after products are delivered, quality issues may require us to repair or replace such products. addressing quality issues can be expensive and may result in additional warranty, repair, replacement and other costs, adversely affecting our financial performance. if new or existing customers have difficulty operating our products or are dissatisfied with our services or solutions, our results of operations could be adversely affected, and we could face possible claims if we fail to meet our customers' expectations. in addition, quality issues can impair our relationships with new or existing customers and adversely affect our brand and reputation, which could, in turn, adversely affect our results of operations. if we fail to manage the distribution of our products and services properly, our business and financial performance could suffer. we use a variety of distribution methods to sell our products and services around the world, including third-party resellers and distributors and both direct and indirect sales to enterprise accounts and consumers. successfully managing the interaction of our direct and indirect channel efforts to reach various potential customer segments for our products and services is a complex process. moreover, since each distribution method has distinct risks and gross margins, our failure to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our products and services could adversely affect our revenue and gross margins and therefore our profitability. our financial results could be materially adversely affected due to distribution channel conflicts or if the financial conditions of our channel partners were to weaken. our results of operations may be adversely affected by any conflicts that might arise between our various distribution channels or the loss or deterioration of any alliance or distribution arrangement. moreover, some of our wholesale distributors may have insufficient financial resources and may not be able to withstand changes in business conditions, including economic weakness, industry consolidation and market trends. many of our significant distributors operate on narrow margins and have been negatively affected by business pressures in the past. considerable trade receivables that are not covered by collateral or credit insurance are outstanding with our distribution channel partners. revenue from indirect sales could suffer, and we could experience disruptions in distribution, if our distributors' financial conditions, abilities to borrow funds in the credit markets or operations weaken. our inventory management is complex, as we continue to sell a significant mix of products through distributors. we must manage both owned and channel inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to distributors, which involves forecasting demand and pricing challenges. distributors may increase orders during periods of product shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high or delay orders in anticipation of new products. distributors also may adjust their orders in response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors and seasonal fluctuations in end-user demand. our reliance upon indirect distribution methods may reduce our visibility into demand and pricing trends and issues, and therefore make forecasting more difficult. if we have excess or obsolete inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write down inventory. moreover, our use of indirect distribution channels may limit our willingness or ability to adjust prices quickly and 19 table of contents otherwise to respond to pricing changes by competitors. we also may have limited ability to estimate future product rebate redemptions in order to price our products effectively. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition key employees, and failure to do so could seriously harm us. in order to be successful, we must attract, retain, train, motivate, develop and transition qualified executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, development, sales, marketing and it support positions. in order to attract and retain executives and other key employees in a competitive marketplace, we must provide a competitive compensation package, including cash- and equity-based compensation. our equity-based incentive awards may contain conditions relating to our stock price performance and our long-term financial performance that make the future value of those awards uncertain. if the anticipated value of such equity-based incentive awards does not materialize, if our equity-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, if our total compensation package is not viewed as being competitive, or if we do not obtain the stockholder approval needed to continue granting equity-based incentive awards in the amounts we believe are necessary, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate executives and key employees could be weakened. our failure to successfully hire executives and key employees or the loss of any executives and key employees could have a significant impact on our operations. further, changes in our management team may be disruptive to our business, and any failure to successfully transition and assimilate key new hires or promoted employees could adversely affect our business and results of operations. industry risks we operate in an intensely competitive industry and competitive pressures could harm our business and financial performance. we encounter aggressive competition from numerous and varied competitors in all areas of our business, and our competitors have targeted and are expected to continue targeting our key market segments. we compete primarily on the basis of our technology, innovation, performance, price, quality, reliability, brand, reputation, distribution, product range and ease of use, account relationships, customer training, service and support, and security of our offerings. if our products, services, support and cost structure do not enable us to compete successfully based on any of those criteria, our results of operations and business prospects could be harmed. we have a large portfolio of products and services and must allocate our financial, personnel and other resources across all of our products and services while competing with companies that have smaller portfolios or specialize in one or more of our product or service lines. as a result, we may invest less in certain areas of our business than our competitors do, and our competitors may have greater financial, technical and marketing resources available to them compared to the resources allocated to our products and services that compete against their products and services. industry consolidation may also affect competition by creating larger, more homogeneous and potentially stronger competitors in the markets in which we operate. additionally, our competitors may affect our business by entering into exclusive arrangements with our existing or potential customers or suppliers. companies with whom we have vertical relationships in certain areas may be or become our competitors in other areas. in addition, companies with whom we have vertical relationships also may acquire or form relationships with our competitors, which could reduce their business with us. if we are unable to effectively manage these complicated relationships with vertical partners, our business and results of operations could be adversely affected. we face aggressive price competition and may have to continue lowering the prices of many of our products and services to stay competitive, while simultaneously seeking to maintain or improve our revenue and gross margin. in addition, competitors who have a greater presence in some of the lower-cost markets in which we compete, or who can obtain better pricing, more favorable contractual terms and conditions or more favorable allocations of products and components during periods of limited supply may be able to offer lower prices than we are able to offer. our cash flows, results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected by these and other industry-wide pricing pressures. because our business model is based on providing innovative and high-quality products and services, we may spend a proportionately greater amount of our revenues on research and development than some of our competitors. if we cannot proportionately decrease our cost structure (apart from research and development expenses) on a timely basis in response to competitive price pressures, our gross margin and, therefore, our profitability could be adversely affected. in addition, if our pricing and other facets of our offerings are not sufficiently competitive, or if there is an adverse reaction to our product decisions, we may lose market share in certain areas, which could adversely affect our financial performance and business prospects. 20 table of contents even if we are able to maintain or increase market share for a particular product, its financial performance could decline because the product is in a maturing industry or market segment or contains technology that is becoming obsolete. for example, our storage business unit is experiencing the effects of a market transition towards software defined and public cloud, which has led to a decline in demand for our traditional storage products. financial performance could decline due to increased competition from other types of products. international risks due to the international nature of our business, political or economic changes or other factors could harm our future revenue, costs and expenses, and financial condition. our business and financial performance depend significantly on worldwide economic conditions and the demand for technology hardware, software and services in the markets in which we compete. economic weakness and uncertainty may adversely affect demand for our products, services and solutions, may result in increased expenses due to higher allowances for doubtful accounts and potential goodwill and asset impairment charges, and may make it more difficult for us to manage inventory and make accurate forecasts of revenue, gross margin, cash flows and expenses. economic weakness and uncertainty could cause our expenses to vary materially from our expectations. any financial turmoil affecting the banking system and financial markets or any significant financial services institution failures could negatively impact our treasury operations, as the financial condition of such parties may deteriorate rapidly and without notice in times of market volatility and disruption. poor financial performance of asset markets combined with lower interest rates and the adverse effects of fluctuating currency exchange rates could lead to higher pension and post-retirement benefit expenses. interest and other expenses could vary materially from expectations depending on changes in interest rates, borrowing costs, currency exchange rates, and costs of hedging activities and the fair value of derivative instruments. economic downturns also may lead to restructuring actions and associated expenses. further, ongoing u.s. federal government spending priorities may limit demand for our products, services and solutions from organizations that receive funding from the u.s. government, and could negatively affect macroeconomic conditions in the united states, which could further reduce demand for our products, services and solutions. sales outside the united states constituted approximately 66% of our net revenue in fiscal 2020. our future business and financial performance could suffer due to a variety of international factors, including: ongoing instability or changes in a country's or region's economic or political conditions, including inflation, recession, interest rate fluctuations and actual or anticipated military or political conflicts, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the covid-19 pandemic; longer collection cycles and financial instability among customers; trade regulations and procedures and actions affecting production, pricing and marketing of products, including policies adopted by countries that may champion or otherwise favor domestic companies and technologies over foreign competitors, u.s. export controls and sanctions, and federal and state tax reforms; local labor conditions and regulations, including local labor issues faced by specific suppliers and original equipment manufacturers ("oems"), or changes to immigration and labor law policies which may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent; managing our geographically dispersed workforce; changes in the international, national or local regulatory and legal environments; differing technology standards or customer requirements; import, export or other business licensing requirements or requirements relating to making foreign direct investments, which could increase our cost of doing business in certain jurisdictions, prevent us from shipping products to particular countries or markets, affect our ability to obtain favorable terms for components, increase our operating costs or lead to penalties or restrictions; difficulties associated with repatriating earnings in restricted countries, and changes in tax laws; and fluctuations in freight costs, limitations on shipping and receiving capacity, and other disruptions in the transportation and shipping infrastructure at important geographic points of exit and entry for our products and shipments. the factors described above also could disrupt our product and component manufacturing and key suppliers located outside of the united states. for example, we rely on suppliers in asia for product assembly and manufacture. in many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, people may engage in business practices prohibited by anti-corruption laws such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act and the u.k. bribery act. although we implement policies, procedures and training designed to facilitate compliance with these laws, our employees and third parties we work with may take actions in violation of our policies, and those actions could have an adverse effect on our business and reputation. 21 table of contents we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. currencies other than the u.s. dollar, including the euro, the british pound, chinese yuan (renminbi) and the japanese yen, can have an impact on our results as expressed in u.s. dollars. currency volatility contributes to variations in our sales of products and services in impacted jurisdictions. fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, most notably the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, could adversely affect our revenue growth in future periods. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states and margins on sales of products that include components obtained from suppliers located outside of the united states. from time to time, we may use forward contracts and options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against foreign currency exchange rate risks. the effectiveness of our hedges depends on our ability to accurately forecast future cash flows, which is particularly difficult during periods of uncertain demand for our products and services and highly volatile exchange rates. we may incur significant losses from our hedging activities due to factors such as demand volatility and currency variations. in addition, certain or all of our hedging activities may be ineffective, may expire and not be renewed or may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial impact resulting from currency variations. losses associated with hedging activities also may impact our revenue and to a lesser extent our cost of sales and financial condition. intellectual property risks our financial performance may suffer if we cannot continue to develop, license or enforce the intellectual property rights on which our businesses depend. we rely upon patent, copyright, trademark, trade secret and other intellectual property laws in the united states, similar laws in other countries, and agreements with our employees, customers, suppliers and other parties, to establish and maintain intellectual property rights in the products and services we sell, provide or otherwise use in our operations. however, any of our intellectual property rights could be challenged, invalidated, infringed or circumvented, or such intellectual property rights may not be sufficient to permit us to take advantage of current market trends or to otherwise provide competitive advantages. further, the laws of certain countries do not protect proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the united states. therefore, in certain jurisdictions we may be unable to protect our proprietary technology adequately against unauthorized third-party copying or use; this, too, could adversely affect our ability to sell products or services and our competitive position. our products and services depend in part on intellectual property and technology licensed from third parties. much of our business and many of our products rely on key technologies developed or licensed by third parties. for example, many of our software offerings are developed using software components or other intellectual property licensed from third parties, including through both proprietary and open source licenses. these third-party software components may become obsolete, defective or incompatible with future versions of our products, or our relationship with the third party may deteriorate, or our agreements with the third party may expire or be terminated. we may face legal or business disputes with licensors that may threaten or lead to the disruption of inbound licensing relationships. in order to remain in compliance with the terms of our licenses, we must carefully monitor and manage our use of third-party software components, including both proprietary and open source license terms that may require the licensing or public disclosure of our intellectual property without compensation or on undesirable terms. additionally, some of these licenses may not be available to us in the future on terms that are acceptable or that allow our product offerings to remain competitive. our inability to obtain licenses or rights on favorable terms could have a material effect on our business, including our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, it is possible that as a consequence of a merger or acquisition, third parties may obtain licenses to some of our intellectual property rights or our business may be subject to certain restrictions that were not in place prior to such transaction. because the availability and cost of licenses from third parties depends upon the willingness of third parties to deal with us on the terms we request, there is a risk that third parties who license to our competitors will either refuse to license us at all, or refuse to license us on terms equally favorable to those granted to our competitors. consequently, we may lose a competitive advantage with respect to these intellectual property rights or we may be required to enter into costly arrangements in order to terminate or limit these rights. third-party claims of intellectual property infringement, including patent infringement, are commonplace in the it industry and successful third-party claims may limit or disrupt our ability to sell our products and services. third parties may claim that we or customers indemnified by us are infringing upon their intellectual property rights. patent assertion entities frequently purchase intellectual property assets for the purpose of extracting infringement settlements. if we cannot license, or replace, allegedly infringed intellectual property on reasonable terms, our operations could be adversely affected. even if we believe that intellectual property claims are without merit, they can be time-consuming and costly to defend against and may divert management's attention and resources away from our business. claims of intellectual property infringement also might require us to redesign affected products, discontinue certain product offerings, enter into costly settlement or license agreements, pay costly damage awards or face a temporary or permanent injunction prohibiting us from 22 table of contents importing, marketing or selling certain of our products. even if we have an agreement to indemnify us against such costs, the indemnifying party may be unable or unwilling to uphold its contractual obligations to us. financial risks failure to maintain a satisfactory credit rating could adversely affect our liquidity, capital position, borrowing costs and access to capital markets. we currently maintain investment grade credit ratings with moody's investors service, standard &amp; poor's ratings services and fitch ratings services. despite these investment grade credit ratings, any future downgrades could increase the cost of borrowing under any indebtedness we may incur, reduce market capacity for our commercial paper or require the posting of additional collateral under our derivative contracts. additionally, increased borrowing costs, including those arising from a credit rating downgrade, can potentially reduce the competitiveness of our financing business. there can be no assurance that we will be able to maintain our credit ratings, and any additional actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade, may have a negative impact on our liquidity, capital position and access to capital markets. our debt obligations may adversely affect our business and our ability to meet our obligations and pay dividends. in addition to our current total carrying debt, we may also incur additional indebtedness in the future. this collective amount of debt could have important adverse consequences to us and our investors, including: requiring a substantial portion of our cash flow from operations to make principal and interest payments; making it more difficult to satisfy other obligations; increasing the risk of a future credit ratings downgrade of our debt, which could increase future debt costs and limit the future availability of debt financing; increasing our vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry conditions; reducing the cash flows available to fund capital expenditures and other corporate purposes and to grow our business; limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and industry; and limiting our ability to borrow additional funds as needed or take advantage of business opportunities as they arise, pay cash dividends or repurchase our common stock. to the extent that we incur additional indebtedness, the risks described above could increase. in addition, our actual cash requirements in the future may be greater than expected. our cash flow from operations may not be sufficient to service our outstanding debt or to repay our outstanding debt as it becomes due, and we may not be able to borrow money, sell assets or otherwise raise funds on acceptable terms, or at all, to service or refinance our debt. the revenue and profitability of our operations have historically varied, which makes our future financial results less predictable. our revenue, gross margin and profit vary among our diverse products and services, customer groups and geographic markets and therefore will likely be different in future periods than our historical results. our revenue depends on the overall demand for our products and services. delays or reductions in it spending by our customers or potential customers could have a material adverse effect on demand for our products and services, which could result in a significant decline in revenue. in addition, revenue declines in some of our businesses may affect revenue in our other businesses as we may lose cross-selling opportunities. overall gross margins and profitability in any given period are dependent partially on the product, service, customer and geographic mix reflected in that period's net revenue. competition, lawsuits, investigations, increases in component and manufacturing costs that we are unable to pass on to our customers, component supply disruptions and other risks affecting our businesses may have a significant impact on our overall gross margin and profitability. variations in fixed cost structure and gross margins across business units and product portfolios may lead to significant operating profit volatility on a quarterly or annual basis. in addition, newer geographic market opportunities may be relatively less profitable due to our investments associated with entering those markets and local pricing pressures, and we may have difficulty establishing and maintaining the operating infrastructure necessary to support the high growth rate associated with some of those markets. market trends, industry shifts, competitive pressures, commoditization of products, increased component or shipping costs, regulatory impacts and other factors may result in reductions in revenue or pressure on gross margins of certain segments in a given period, which may lead to adjustments to our operations. moreover, our efforts to address the challenges facing our business could increase the level of variability in our financial results because the rate at which we are able to realize the benefits from those efforts may vary from period to period. our uneven sales cycle makes planning and inventory management difficult and future financial results less predictable. in some of our businesses, our quarterly sales have periodically reflected a pattern in which a disproportionate percentage of each quarter's total sales occurs towards the end of the quarter. this uneven sales pattern makes predicting revenue, earnings, 23 table of contents cash flow from operations and working capital for each financial period difficult, increases the risk of unanticipated variations in our quarterly results and financial condition and places pressure on our inventory management and logistics systems. if predicted demand is substantially greater than orders, there may be excess inventory. alternatively, if orders substantially exceed predicted demand, we may not be able to fulfill all of the orders received in each quarter and such orders may be canceled. depending on when they occur in a quarter, developments such as a systems failure, component pricing movements, component shortages or global logistics disruptions, could adversely impact our inventory levels and results of operations in a manner that is disproportionate to the number of days in the quarter affected. we experience some seasonal trends in the sale of our products that also may produce variations in our quarterly results and financial condition. many of the factors that create and affect seasonal trends are beyond our control. we make estimates and assumptions in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and any changes to those estimates and assumptions could adversely affect our results of operations. in connection with the preparation of our consolidated financial statements, we use certain estimates and assumptions based on historical experience and other factors. our most critical accounting estimates are described in the section entitled "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations." in addition, as discussed in note 1, "overview and summary of significant accounting policies use of estimates" and note 17, "litigation and contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements, we make certain estimates, including decisions related to provisions for legal proceedings and other contingencies. while we believe that these estimates and assumptions are reasonable under the circumstances, they are subject to significant uncertainties, some of which are beyond our control. should any of these estimates and assumptions change or prove to have been incorrect, it could adversely affect our results of operations. regulatory risks our business is subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations that could result in costs or other sanctions that adversely affect our business and results of operations. we are subject to various federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations such as those concerning environmental protection. for example, we face increasing complexity related to product design, the use of regulated, hazardous and scarce materials, the associated energy consumption and efficiency related to the use of products, the transportation and shipping of products, climate change regulations, and the reuse, recycling and/or disposal of products and their components at end-of-use or useful life as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to our transition to a more circular economy. if we were to violate or become liable under environmental laws or if our products become non-compliant with environmental laws or market access requirements, our customers may refuse to purchase our products and we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions, such as restrictions on our products entering certain jurisdictions, fines, and/or civil or criminal sanctions. environmental regulations may also impact the availability and cost of energy or emissions related to energy consumption which may increase our cost of manufacturing and/or the cost of powering and cooling owned it infrastructures. in addition, our business is subject to an ever growing number of laws addressing privacy and information security. in particular, we face an increasingly complex regulatory environment as we adjust to new and future requirements relating to the security of our offerings. if we were to violate or become liable under laws or regulations associated with privacy or security, we could incur substantial costs or face other sanctions. our potential exposure includes regulatory fines and civil or criminal sanctions third-party claims and reputational damage. failure to comply with government contracting regulations could adversely affect our business and results of operations. our contracts with federal, state, provincial and local governmental customers are subject to various procurement regulations, contract provisions and other requirements relating to their formation, administration and performance. any violation of government contracting regulations could result in the imposition of various civil and criminal penalties, which may include termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments and, in the case of our government contracts, fines and suspension from future government contracting. such failures could also cause reputational damage to our business. in addition, we may in the future be, subject to qui tam litigation brought by private individuals on behalf of the government relating to our government contracts, which could include claims for treble damages. if we are suspended or disbarred from government work or if our ability to compete for new government contracts is adversely affected, our financial performance could suffer. unanticipated changes in our tax provisions, the adoption of new tax legislation or exposure to additional tax liabilities could affect our financial performance. we are subject to income and other taxes in the united states and numerous foreign jurisdictions. our tax liabilities are affected by the amounts we charge in intercompany transactions for inventory, services, licenses, funding and other items. we are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. tax authorities may disagree with our intercompany charges, cross- 24 table of contents jurisdictional transfer pricing or other matters, and may assess additional taxes as a result. there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes of these audits, and the amounts ultimately paid upon resolution of audits could be materially different from the amounts previously included in our income tax expense and therefore could have a material impact on our tax provision, net income and cash flows. in addition, our effective tax rate in the future could be adversely affected by changes to our operating structure, changes in the mix of earnings in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in the valuation of deferred tax assets and liabilities, changes in tax laws and the discovery of new information in the course of our tax return preparation process. the carrying value of our deferred tax assets is dependent on our ability to generate future taxable income. the organisation for economic co-operation and development (oecd), an international association of 34 countries including the united states, has proposed changes to numerous long-standing tax principles. these proposals, if finalized and adopted by the associated countries, will likely increase tax uncertainty and may adversely affect our provision for income taxes. president-elect biden has provided some informal guidance on what tax law changes he would support. among other things, his proposals would raise the rate on both domestic and foreign income and impose a new alternative minimum tax on book income. if these proposals are ultimately enacted into legislation, they could materially impact our tax provision, cash tax liability and effective tax rate. during fiscal 2019, we executed a termination and mutual release agreement which terminated our tax matters agreement with hp inc. because we now have limited indemnity rights from hp inc., we potentially bear more economic risk for certain potential unfavorable tax assessments. risks related to prior separations the stock distribution in either or both of the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our former software segment could result in significant tax liability, and dxc or micro focus (as applicable) may in certain cases be obligated to indemnify us for any such tax liability imposed on us. the completed separations of our former enterprise services business and our software segment were conditioned upon the receipt of an opinion from outside counsel regarding the qualification of (i) the relevant distribution and related transactions as a "reorganization" within the meaning of sections 368(a), 361 and 355 of the internal revenue code of 1986 (the "code"); and (ii) the relevant merger as a "reorganization" within the meaning of section 368(a) of the code. while the software separation generally qualified for tax-free treatment for us, seattle spinco and micro focus, the acquisition of seattle spinco by micro focus resulted in the recognition of gain (but not loss) for u.s. persons who received micro focus american depositary shares in the software separation. each opinion of outside counsel was based upon and relied on, among other things, certain facts and assumptions, as well as certain representations, statements and undertakings of us, everett spinco and csc, or us, seattle spinco and micro focus, as applicable. if any of these representations, statements or undertakings are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, or if any party breaches any of its covenants in the relevant separation documents, the relevant opinion of counsel may be invalid and the conclusions reached therein could be jeopardized. notwithstanding the opinions of counsel, the internal revenue service (the "irs") could determine that either or both of the distributions should be treated as a taxable transaction if it determines that any of the facts, assumptions, representations, statements or undertakings upon which the relevant opinion of counsel was based are false or have been violated, or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion of counsel. an opinion of counsel is not binding on the irs and there can be no assurance that the irs will not assert a contrary position. if the distribution of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, together with certain related transactions, failed to qualify as a transaction that is generally tax-free, for u.s. federal income tax purposes, under sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(d) of the code, in general, we would recognize taxable gain as if we had sold the stock of everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable, in a taxable sale for its fair market value, and our stockholders who receive everett spinco shares or seattle spinco shares in the relevant distribution would be subject to tax as if they had received a taxable distribution equal to the fair market value of such shares. we obtained private letter rulings from the irs regarding certain u.s. federal income tax matters relating to the separation of our enterprise services business and software segment. those rulings concluded that certain transactions in those separations are generally tax-free for u.s. federal income tax purposes. the conclusions of the irs private letter rulings were based, among other things, on various factual assumptions we have authorized and representations we have made to the irs. if any of these assumptions or representations are, or become, inaccurate or incomplete, the validity of the irs private letter rulings may be affected. notwithstanding the foregoing, we incurred certain tax costs in connection with the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and software segment, including non-u.s. tax expenses resulting from 25 table of contents the completed separation of our former enterprise services business and software segment in multiple non-u.s. jurisdictions that do not legally provide for tax-free separations, which may be material. if the completed separation of our former enterprise services business or software segment (including certain internal transactions undertaken in anticipation of those separations) are determined to be taxable for u.s. federal income tax purposes, we, our stockholders that are subject to u.s. federal income tax and/or dxc and/or micro focus could incur significant u.s. federal income tax liabilities. under the tax matters agreements entered into by us with everett spinco and csc, and with seattle spinco and micro focus, everett spinco and seattle spinco generally would be required to indemnify us for any taxes resulting from the relevant separation (and any related costs and other damages) to the extent such amounts resulted from (i) certain actions taken by, or acquisitions of capital stock of, everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable (excluding actions required by the documents governing the relevant separation), or (ii) any breach of certain representations and covenants made by everett spinco or seattle spinco, as applicable. any such indemnity obligations could be material. we continue to face a number of risks related to the separation from our former parent, including those associated with ongoing indemnification obligations, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations, and shared use of certain intellectual property rights, which could in the future adversely impact our reputation. in connection with the separation, hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. entered into several agreements that determine the allocation of assets and liabilities between the companies following the separation and include any necessary indemnifications related to liabilities and obligations. in these agreements, hp inc. agreed to indemnify us for certain liabilities, and we agreed to indemnify hp inc. for certain liabilities, including cross-indemnities that are designed and intended to place financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of our business with us, and financial responsibility for the obligations and liabilities of hp inc.'s business with hp inc. we may be obligated to fully indemnify hp inc. for certain liabilities under the separation agreements or hp inc. may not be able to fully cover their indemnification obligations to us under the same separation agreements. each of these risks could negatively affect our business, financial position, results of operations and cash flows. in addition, the terms of the separation also include licenses and other arrangements to provide for certain ongoing use of intellectual property in the operations of both businesses. for example, through a joint brand holding structure, both hewlett packard enterprise and hp inc. retain the ability to make ongoing use of certain variations of the legacy hewlett-packard and hp branding, respectively. as a result of this continuing shared use of the legacy branding there is a risk that conduct or events adversely affecting the reputation of hp inc. could also adversely affect the reputation of hewlett packard enterprise. general risks our stock price has fluctuated and may continue to fluctuate, which may make future prices of our stock difficult to predict. investors should not rely on recent or historical trends to predict future stock prices, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. our stock price, like that of other technology companies, can be volatile and can be affected by, among other things, speculation, coverage or sentiment in the media or the investment community; the announcement of new, planned or contemplated products, services, technological innovations, acquisitions, divestitures or other significant transactions by us or our competitors; our quarterly financial results and comparisons to estimates by the investment community or financial outlook provided by us; the financial results and business strategies of our competitors; developments relating to pending investigations, claims and disputes; or the timing and amount of our share repurchases. general or industry specific market conditions or stock market performance or domestic or international macroeconomic and geopolitical factors unrelated to hewlett packard enterprise's performance also may affect the price of hewlett packard enterprise's stock. volatility in the price of our securities could result in the filing of securities class action litigation matters, which could result in substantial costs and the diversion of management time and resources. 26 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 62 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk. in the normal course of business, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate risks that could impact our financial position and results of operations. our risk management strategy with respect to these market risks may include the use of derivative financial instruments. we use derivative contracts only to manage existing underlying exposures. accordingly, we do not use derivative contracts for speculative purposes. our risks, risk management strategy and a sensitivity analysis estimating the effects of changes in fair value for each of these exposures is outlined below. actual gains and losses in the future may differ materially from the sensitivity analyses based on changes in the timing and amount of foreign currency exchange rate and interest rate movements and our actual exposures and derivatives in place at the time of the change, as well as the effectiveness of the derivative to hedge the related exposure. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales, anticipated purchases, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we transact business in approximately 50 currencies worldwide, of which the most significant foreign currencies to our operations for fiscal 2020 were the euro, japanese yen, british pound, and chinese yuan (renminbi). for most currencies, we are a net receiver of the foreign currency and therefore benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to the foreign currency. even where we are a net receiver of the foreign currency, a weaker u.s. dollar may adversely affect certain expense figures, if taken alone. we use a combination of forward contracts and, from time to time, options designated as cash flow hedges to protect against the foreign currency exchange rate risks inherent in our forecasted net revenue and, to a lesser extent, cost of sales, operating expenses, and intercompany loans denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. in addition, when debt is denominated in a foreign currency, we may use swaps to exchange the foreign currency principal and interest obligations for u.s. dollar-denominated amounts to manage the exposure to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. we also use other derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, consisting primarily of forward contracts, to hedge foreign currency balance sheet exposures. alternatively, we may choose not to hedge the risk associated with our foreign currency exposures, primarily if such exposure acts as a natural hedge for offsetting amounts denominated in the same currency or if the currency is too difficult or too expensive to hedge. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2020 and 2019, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of foreign currency exchange rates relative to the u.s. dollar, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover all of our foreign currency derivative contracts offset by underlying exposures. the foreign currency exchange rates we used in performing the sensitivity analysis were based on market rates in effect at october 31, 2020 and 2019. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign currency exchange rates would result in a foreign exchange fair value loss of $29 million and $31 million at october 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. interest rate risk we also are exposed to interest rate risk related to debt we have issued, our investment portfolio and financing receivables. we issue long-term debt in either u.s. dollars or foreign currencies based on market conditions at the time of financing. we often use interest rate and/or currency swaps to modify the market risk exposures in connection with the debt to achieve u.s. dollar based floating or fixed interest expense. the swap transactions generally involve the exchange of fixed for floating interest payments. however, in circumstances where we believe additional fixed-rate debt would be beneficial, we may choose to terminate a previously executed swap, or swap certain floating interest payments to fixed. in order to hedge the fair value of certain fixed-rate investments, we may enter into interest rate swaps that convert fixed interest returns into variable interest returns. we may use cash flow hedges to hedge the variability of libor-based interest income received on certain variable-rate investments, by entering into interest rate swaps that convert variable rate interest returns into fixed-rate interest returns. we have performed sensitivity analyses as of october 31, 2020 and 2019, using a modeling technique that measures the change in the fair values arising from a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in the levels of interest rates across the entire yield curve, with all other variables held constant. the analyses cover our debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the analyses use actual or approximate maturities for the debt, investments, financing receivables, and interest rate swaps. the discount rates used were based on the market interest rates in effect at october 31, 2020 and 2019. the sensitivity analyses indicated that a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates would result in a loss in the fair values of our 62 table of contents debt, investments and financing receivables, net of interest rate swaps, of $47 million and $39 million at october 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. 63 table of contents