quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the sub-caption &quot;market risk&quot; of the caption &quot;management discussion and analysis&quot; on pages 20 through 23 of the annual report to shareholders for the year ended january 31, 2002. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the information required by this item is furnished by incorporation by reference to all information under the sub-caption &quot;market risk&quot; of the caption &quot;management discussion and analysis&quot; on pages 25 through 28 of the annual report to shareholders for the year ended january 31, 2003. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.risk factors. readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2009 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( wal-mart, the company or we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our fiscal year ends on january 31. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2009, we had net sales of $401.2 billion. our operations comprise three business segments: walmart u.s., international and sam's club. our walmart u.s. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 63.7% of our fiscal 2009 net sales and operates stores in three different formats in the united states, as well as wal-mart's online retail operations, walmart.com. our walmart u.s. retail formats include: discount stores, which average approximately 108,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products; supercenters, which average approximately 186,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket; and neighborhood markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise. at january 31, 2009, our international segment consisted of retail operations in 14 countries and puerto rico. this segment generated 24.6% of our fiscal 2009 net sales. the international segment includes numerous different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and sam's clubs that operate outside the united states. our sam's club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the united states and the segment's online retail operations, samsclub.com. sam's club accounted for 11.7% of our fiscal 2009 net sales. our sam's clubs average approximately 133,000 square feet in size. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although wal-mart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in fiscal 1984, we opened our first three sam's clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in fiscal 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. at january 31, 2009, our international segment was comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, japan, puerto rico and the united kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five countries in central america, and in chile and mexico, our joint ventures in india and china and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. at january 31, 2009, we operated 891 discount stores, 2,612 supercenters, 153 neighborhood markets and 602 sam's clubs in the united states. at the end of fiscal year 2009, our international segment operated units in argentina (28), brazil (345), canada (318), chile (197), costa rica (164), el salvador (77), guatemala (160), honduras (50), japan (371), mexico (1,197), nicaragua (51), puerto rico (56) and the united kingdom (358). we also operated 243 stores in china through a combination of joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries at january 31, 2009. at january 31, 2009, our indian business consisted of wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations through our joint venture with bharti enterprises and technical support to the retail stores of bharti retail through a franchise agreement. 3 our business segments our retail operations serve our customers through three segments. the walmart u.s. segment includes our discount stores, supercenters and neighborhood markets in the united states as well as walmart.com. the sam's club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the united states as well as samsclub.com. the international segment consists of our operations in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, india, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom. you will find information concerning the financial results of our segments and the total and long-lived assets of each of those segments in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we have incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k our consolidated financial statements as of january 31, 2009, and for the year then ended, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that are contained in our annual report to shareholders, portions of which are included as an exhibit hereto. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $255.7 billion, $239.5 billion and $226.3 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store, supercenter or neighborhood market location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters in 48 states and neighborhood markets in 16 states. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 108,000 square feet. supercenters range in size from 94,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 186,000 square feet. neighborhood markets range in size from 36,000 square feet to 62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. from time to time, walmart u.s. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . walmart u.s. segment store count and square footage (1) fiscal years ended january 31, 2005 through 2009 walmart u.s. walmart u.s. discount stores supercenters square square fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total footage opened (2) closed total footage balance forward 1,478 145,065 1,471 275,067 2005 36 2 159 1,353 135,481 242 - 1,713 320,056 2006 24 2 166 1,209 123,607 267 - 1,980 370,711 2007 15 2 147 1,075 114,507 279 3 2,256 421,211 2008 7 2 109 971 104,561 191 - 2,447 456,516 2009 2 4 78 891 96,304 165 - 2,612 486,625 walmart u.s. total neighborhood markets walmart u.s. segment square square fiscal year opened closed total footage opened (3) closed total footage balance forward 64 2,778 3,013 422,910 2005 21 - 85 3,621 140 2 3,151 459,158 2006 15 - 100 4,218 140 2 3,289 498,536 2007 12 - 112 4,672 159 5 3,443 540,390 2008 20 - 132 5,552 109 2 3,550 566,629 2009 23 2 153 6,370 112 6 3,656 589,299 (1) total and square footage columns are as of january 31, of the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. (2) includes expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. 4 merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and neighborhood markets. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies. entertainment contains electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and toys. hardlines consist of fabrics and crafts, stationery and books, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, outdoor entertaining and seasonal merchandise. apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes and jewelry. health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services. home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances. the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including great value, equate, ol' roy, sam's choice, spring valley, parent's choice, everstart, faded glory, no boundaries, george, athletic works, secret treasures, puritan, durabrand, hometrends, mainstays, ozark trail, white stag and canopy. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include general electric, disney, mcdonald's, better homes &amp; gardens, op, starter, danskin now and just my size. sales for the walmart u.s. segment by strategic merchandise unit were as follows during the fiscal year ended: january 31, strategic merchandise units 2009 2008 grocery 49 % 47 % entertainment 13 14 hardlines 12 12 apparel 11 12 health &amp; wellness 10 9 home 5 6 total 100 % 100 % 5 operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining discount stores, supercenters and neighborhood markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers' health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. we also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites. our ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; store within a store a program to provide accountability to assistant and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department performance; store of the community a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; clean, fast and friendly our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment; win, play and show a strategy to select a merchandise assortment based on our growth potential, economies of scale and customer credibility in each business; and save even more a strategy to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price on key value items. in addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience, provide us with additional competitive advantages. distribution. during fiscal 2009, approximately 81% of the walmart u.s. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped to the segment's stores through our distribution centers. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our walmart u.s. segment operations are supported by 121 distribution facilities as of january 31, 2009, located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 121 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 106. third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. during fiscal 2009, the company opened one food import distribution center and closed one walmart.com distribution center. in addition to servicing the walmart u.s. segment, some of our wal-mart distribution centers also service our sam's club segment for certain items. 6 international segment the international segment's net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, were $98.6 billion, $90.4 billion and $76.9 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. our international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, japan, puerto rico and the united kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five countries in central america, and in chile and mexico, our joint ventures in india and china and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. international segment unit count and square footage (1) fiscal years ended january 31, 2005 through 2009 central argentina brazil (2) canada america chile china (3) unit square unit square unit square unit square unit square unit square fiscal year count footage count footage count footage count footage count footage count footage balance forward 11 2,175 25 3,370 235 27,211 - - - - 34 5,713 2005 11 2,175 149 11,393 262 29,953 - - - - 43 7,550 2006 11 2,175 295 23,225 278 31,730 - - - - 56 10,261 2007 13 2,427 299 23,789 289 33,591 413 7,128 - - 73 13,583 2008 21 3,789 313 24,958 305 36,590 457 7,822 - - 202 36,391 2009 28 4,373 345 26,371 318 39,501 502 8,277 197 9,564 243 43,165 japan (4) mexico puerto rico united kingdom total international unit square unit square unit square unit square unit square fiscal year count footage count footage count footage count footage count footage balance forward - - 623 35,334 53 3,478 267 21,967 1,248 99,248 2005 - - 679 39,133 54 3,596 282 23,328 1,480 117,128 2006 375 26,725 774 44,655 54 3,774 315 25,532 2,158 168,077 2007 369 26,887 889 50,401 54 3,829 335 26,800 2,734 188,435 2008 371 24,532 1,023 56,804 54 3,829 352 27,868 3,098 222,583 2009 371 24,478 1,197 63,113 56 4,037 358 28,907 3,615 251,786 (1) square footage is reported in thousands. excludes units and square footage for our operations in germany and south korea, which we disposed of in october 2006. (2) brazil includes 118 bompre o units acquired in february 2004 and 139 sonae units acquired in december 2005. (3) includes units of bounteous company ltd. ( bcl ). bcl operates 103 hypermarkets in 34 cities in china under the trust-mart banner. (4) excludes 52 wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. also excludes 23 seiyu stores, which have closed or will close in fiscal 2010. 7 international unit counts and operating formats as of january 31, 2009: country supermarkets discount stores supercenters hypermarkets other total argentina - - 22 - 6 28 brazil (1) 155 - 34 71 85 345 canada (2) - 256 56 - 6 318 chile 46 76 - 75 - 197 china - - 132 103 8 243 costa rica 25 122 - 6 11 164 el salvador 30 45 - 2 - 77 guatemala 29 109 - 6 16 160 honduras 7 36 - 1 6 50 japan 264 - - 106 1 371 mexico (3) 163 67 154 - 813 1,197 nicaragua 7 44 - - - 51 puerto rico 31 7 8 - 10 56 united kingdom 307 - 30 - 21 358 grand total 1,064 762 436 370 983 3,615 (1) other format includes 22 sam's clubs, 23 cash-n-carry stores, 39 combination discount and grocery stores and 1 general merchandise store. (2) other format includes 6 sam's clubs that were closed in march of fiscal 2010. (3) other format includes 91 sam's clubs, 279 combination discount and grocery stores, 83 department stores and 360 restaurants. during fiscal 2009, the company disposed of gazeley limited ( gazeley ), an asda commercial property development subsidiary in the united kingdom. consequently, the results of operations associated with gazeley and the gain on disposal are presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of income and consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. the cash flows related to this operation were insignificant for all periods presented. during the third quarter of fiscal 2009, the company initiated a restructuring program under which the company's japanese subsidiary, the seiyu ltd., will close 23 stores and dispose of certain excess properties. this restructuring will involve incurring costs associated with lease termination obligations, asset impairment charges and employee separation benefits, although any additional costs are not expected to be material. the costs associated with this restructuring and the results of operations of the affected stores and properties are presented as discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of income and consolidated balance sheets for all periods presented. the cash flows and accrued liabilities related to this restructuring were insignificant for all periods presented. in january 2009, the company completed a tender offer for the shares of distribuci n y servicio d&amp;s s.a. ( d&amp;s ), acquiring approximately 58.2% of the outstanding d&amp;s shares (the "first offer"). d&amp;s has 197 stores, 10 shopping centers and 85 presto financial services branches throughout chile. the purchase price for the d&amp;s shares in the first offer was approximately $1.55 billion. as of january 31, 2009, assets recorded in the acquisition after the first offer, were approximately $3.6 billion, including approximately $1.0 billion in goodwill, liabilities assumed were approximately $1.7 billion and minority interest was approximately $395 million. under the chilean securities laws, the company was required after the first offer to initiate a second tender offer (the "second offer") for the remaining outstanding shares of d&amp;s on the same terms as the first offer. the company completed the second offer in march 2009, acquiring approximately 16.4% of the outstanding d&amp;s shares for approximately $430 million, resulting in the company owning approximately 74.6% of the d&amp;s shares. in connection with the transaction, the former d&amp;s controlling shareholders were each granted a put option that is exercisable beginning in january 2011 through january 2016. during the exercise period, the put option allows each former controlling shareholder the right to require the company to purchase up to all of their shares of d&amp;s (approximately 25.1%) owned following the second offer at fair market value at the time of an exercise, if any. the consolidated financial statements of d&amp;s, as well as the allocation of the purchase price as of january 31, 2009, are preliminary. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the united states have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. 8 operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers. other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the international segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global procurement practices. in addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries. seasonal aspects of operations. the international segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the international segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate and, in mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the international segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. in our international units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment's competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 146 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom and two export consolidation facilities in the united states. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the international segment. during fiscal 2009, approximately 74% of the international segment's purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the international segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 146 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 34. third parties owned and operated the remaining 78 distribution facilities. sam's club segment the sam's club segment had net sales of $46.9 billion, $44.4 billion and $41.6 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a membership club warehouse, we operate sam's clubs in 48 states. facility sizes for sam's clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with the average sam's club facility being approximately 133,000 square feet. sam's club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . sam's club segment club count and square footage fiscal years ended january 31, 2005 through 2009 (1) square fiscal year opened closed total footage balance forward 538 68,144 2005 13 - 551 70,677 2006 17 1 567 73,391 2007 15 3 579 76,270 2008 12 - 591 78,236 2009 11 - 602 79,906 (1) total and square footage columns are as of january 31, of the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. 9 merchandise. sam's club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the member's mark, bakers &amp; chefs and sam's club brands in five categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format. sundries, including snack foods, tobacco, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, paper goods, laundry and home care and other consumables. food, including dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled and frozen packaged foods. hardgoods, including home improvement, electronics, office supplies, outdoor living, grills, gardening and furniture. service businesses, including photo processing, pharmacy and optical services, floral, tire and battery centers and gasoline stations. softgoods, including apparel, jewelry, housewares, mattresses and small appliances. sales for the sam's club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: january 31, category 2009 2008 sundries 37 % 36 % food 30 29 hardgoods 16 18 service businesses, including fuel 12 12 softgoods 5 5 total 100 % 100 % operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam's clubs are membership-only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including debit cards, some types of credit cards, and a private label and co-branded discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers' health benefit plans. members include both small business owners and individual consumers. individual consumers are referred to as advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business account for $35 each. businesses can also purchase advantage memberships for their employees under a group membership program. group rates are $30 per group advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. sam's club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. the annual fee for a primary plus member (business or advantage) is $100. in addition, business plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates (add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam's club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. sam's club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. sam's club competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2009, approximately 65% of the sam's club segment non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam's club segment's dedicated distribution facilities and some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution centers for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club purchases directly to sam's club locations. as of january 31, 2009, our sam's club segment operations were supported by 26 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 26 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8. third parties owned and operated the remaining 18 distribution facilities. the principal focus of our sam's club's distribution operations is on crossdocking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. 10 employees as of january 31, 2009, the company and its subsidiaries employed over 2.1 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the united states and approximately 694,000 associates internationally. like almost all retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. in the united states, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the wal-mart profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards or sam's club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the associate stock purchase program, and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. the company's medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. in our operations outside the united states, the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is http://www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our senior financial officer code of ethics and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors . these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of wal-mart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. portions of our annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the united states and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our walmart u.s. segment and sam's club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the united states. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our international segment. 11 higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations, also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and sam's clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets or sam's clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam's clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our international segment and our future financial performance. failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be affected adversely. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including edlp, rollbacks, store within a store and store of the community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 12 risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states' foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico, and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china and india and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2009, our international operations generated 24.6% of our net sales. as a result of a recent acquisition of operations and our expansion activities in foreign countries, we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the united states and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, other weather conditions, such as major winter storms, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. the significant property damage experienced by the company and others resulting from the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. the insurance coverage offered to the company for named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to us. as a result the company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses that may result from named windstorms. 13 we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the united states. the class as certified in dukes currently includes present and former female associates. the plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys' fees. on june 4, 2004, the u.s. district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs' motion for class certification, which we have appealed. on february 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit upheld the district court's ruling. on february 20, 2007, the company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the court of appeals. on november 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of february 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. as a result, the company's petition for rehearing en banc was denied as moot. the company filed a new petition for rehearing en banc on january 8, 2008. on february 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an order granting the petition. the court of appeals heard oral argument on the petition on march 24, 2009. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. if we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk under the caption management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors," and in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q. in addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors and other risks in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and disclose other risks in other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports mentioned above, as well as other risks not known to us at this time, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2013 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") operates retail stores in various formats under 69 banners around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp") while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis. our discussion includes the accounts of walmart and its subsidiaries as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2013 ("fiscal 2013"), january 31, 2012 ("fiscal 2012") and january 31, 2011 ("fiscal 2011"). during fiscal 2013, we generated total revenues of $469.2 billion, which included net sales of $466.1 billion . our operations comprise three reportable business segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. currently, walmart u.s. is the largest segment of our business, accounting for approximately 59% of our fiscal 2013 net sales, and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the u.s. and puerto rico, as well as its online retail operations, walmart.com. walmart international consists of retail operations in 26 countries and generated approximately 29% of our fiscal 2013 net sales. the walmart international segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, wholesale clubs, including sam's clubs, and various retail websites that operate outside the u.s. sam's club consists of membership warehouse clubs operated in 47 states in the u.s. and puerto rico, as well as the segment's online retail operations, samsclub.com. the sam's club segment accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2013 net sales. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1984, we opened our first three sam's clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has continued to expand and at january 31, 2013 , our walmart international segment conducted retail business in 26 countries. our business segments the company is engaged in the operation of retail stores located throughout the u.s.; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, china, japan and the united kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in africa, central america, chile, china and mexico; its joint ventures in india and china; and other controlled subsidiaries in china. the company defines its reportable segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the walmart u.s. segment includes the company's mass merchant concept in the u.s., operating under the "walmart" or "wal-mart" brand, as well as walmart.com. the walmart international segment consists of the company's operations outside of the u.s., including various retail websites. the sam's club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the u.s., as well as samsclub.com. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's operating income, which we calculate by including certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when we do so, the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation. 4 walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $274.5 billion , $264.2 billion and $260.3 billion for fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and puerto rico, with supercenters in 48 states and puerto rico, discount stores in 44 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 25 states and puerto rico. supercenters range in size from 70,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 181,000 square feet. discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 105,000 square feet. neighborhood markets and other small formats range in size from 1,000 square feet to 66,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 39,000 square feet. from time to time, walmart u.s. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . walmart u.s. segment retail unit count and retail square feet (1) walmart u.s. supercenters walmart u.s. discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened closed conversions (2) total square feet balance forward 2,453 457,472 979 105,541 2009 88 79 2,620 487,907 2 (4 ) (79 ) 898 97,156 2010 49 86 2,755 510,757 (2 ) (86 ) 810 87,721 2011 50 102 2,907 534,577 (102 ) 708 75,116 2012 43 79 3,029 552,237 (79 ) 629 66,402 2013 55 74 3,158 570,409 7 (1 ) (74 ) 561 59,098 walmart u.s. neighborhood markets and other small formats total walmart u.s. segment fiscal year opened closed total square feet opened (3) closed total square feet balance forward 163 6,365 3,595 569,378 2009 24 (2 ) 185 7,193 114 (6 ) 3,703 592,256 2010 5 190 7,374 54 (2 ) 3,755 605,852 2011 2 (3 ) 189 7,374 52 (3 ) 3,804 617,067 2012 27 (6 ) 210 8,047 70 (6 ) 3,868 626,686 2013 79 (3 ) 286 11,226 141 (4 ) 4,005 640,733 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) conversions of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores to supercenters. 5 merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services and over-the-counter drugs; hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise; apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d cor, outdoor living and horticulture. the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual sales. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including: "canopy," "equate," "everstart," "faded glory," "george," "great value," "hometrends," "mainstays," "marketside," "no boundaries," "ol' roy," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "prima della," "puritan," "spring valley" and "white stag." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "danskin now," "disney," "general electric," "just my size," "op," "rival" and "starter." the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011: fiscal years ended january 31, strategic merchandise units 2013 2012 2011 grocery 55% 55% 53% entertainment 11% 12% 12% health and wellness 11% 11% 11% hardlines 9% 9% 9% apparel 7% 7% 8% home 7% 6% 7% total 100% 100% 100% periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period's presentation to maintain comparability. 6 operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets, are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through paypal. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers' health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climates. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. the walmart u.s. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. we also compete with others for desirable sites for new retail units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; save even more / ad match a strategy to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price; store of the community a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; and clean, fast and friendly our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. distribution. during fiscal 2013 , approximately 81% of the walmart u.s. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise is transported primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our walmart u.s. segment operations are supported by 133 distribution facilities, including return facilities, as of january 31, 2013 . of these 133 facilities, we owned and operated 104. we owned and third parties operated two facilities, and we leased and operated one facility. third parties owned and operated the remaining 26 facilities. in addition to servicing the walmart u.s. segment, some of our walmart distribution facilities also service our sam's club segment for certain items. 7 walmart international segment the walmart international segment's net sales for fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , were $135.2 billion , $125.9 billion and $109.2 billion , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. our walmart international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, china, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua), chile, china and mexico; our joint ventures in china and india; and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. walmart international operates units in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, retail websites, warehouse clubs, restaurants and apparel stores. generally, retail centers range in size from 5,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. other, which includes restaurants in chile, japan and mexico, range in size up to 4,200 square feet. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at various websites we operate. also, on a limited basis, our walmart international segment operates banks that provide consumer financing programs. walmart international segment unit count (1) and retail square feet (2) africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 21 3,789 313 24,958 305 36,590 457 7,822 2009 28 4,301 349 26,594 318 39,501 502 8,277 197 9,564 2010 43 5,185 434 28,695 317 40,225 519 8,441 252 10,437 2011 63 6,211 479 30,272 325 42,005 549 8,739 279 11,115 2012 347 18,529 88 7,270 512 31,575 333 43,738 622 9,501 316 11,785 2013 377 19,775 94 7,531 558 32,494 379 48,354 642 9,873 329 12,671 china india (3) japan (4) mexico united kingdom total walmart international fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 202 36,391 420 24,569 1,023 56,804 352 27,868 3,093 218,791 2009 225 39,973 417 24,514 1,201 63,067 358 29,011 3,595 244,802 2010 279 49,401 1 50 414 24,292 1,469 69,067 371 30,053 4,099 265,846 2011 328 56,317 5 270 414 24,513 1,730 76,229 385 31,009 4,557 286,680 2012 370 62,124 15 826 419 24,521 2,088 85,253 541 33,765 5,651 328,887 2013 393 65,801 20 1,083 438 24,448 2,353 91,488 565 34,810 6,148 348,328 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31. for the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of january 31, 2008. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) does not include franchised retail stores in india, which are owned and operated by bharti retail. (4) all periods include the wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. the information for the balance forward and for fiscal 2009 excludes 23 seiyu units closed in fiscal 2010. 8 unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2013 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 279 98 377 argentina 94 94 brazil 461 86 11 558 canada 379 379 central america (4) 640 2 642 chile 327 2 329 china 385 8 393 india (5) 20 20 japan 372 66 438 mexico 1,840 142 371 2,353 united kingdom 564 1 565 total 5,341 356 451 6,148 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2012 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31, 2013. (2) "other" includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under varying banners in brazil, chile, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 12 ), ghana ( 1 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 17 ), namibia ( 3 ), nigeria ( 2 ), south africa ( 333 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 1 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 205 ), el salvador ( 80 ), guatemala ( 206 ), honduras ( 72 ) and nicaragua ( 79 ). (5) in india, the business is operated as a cash and carry business. retail units in india are franchised and are owned and operated by bharti retail. 9 merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the u.s. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the walmart international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers, and in canada, chile and mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries. limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the walmart international segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending january 31. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climates. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. we also operate restaurant chains and, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations. we compete with others for desirable sites for new retail units. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which walmart international operates. edlp is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets, including high-growth or emerging markets. we are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to edlp. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 160 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom, including one export consolidation facility in the u.s. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2013 , approximately 82% of the walmart international segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 160 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 41, we owned and third parties operated 11, and we leased and operated 67. third parties leased and operated the remaining 41 distribution facilities. 10 sam's club segment the sam's club segment had net sales of $56.4 billion , $53.8 billion and $49.5 billion for fiscal 2013 , 2012 and 2011 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. sam's clubs are membership only operations. members include both business owners and individual consumers. individual consumers are referred to as advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 each. sam's club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both business and advantage members. the annual fee for a business or advantage plus member is $100. in addition, business plus members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 each. taxes, if applicable, are added to all membership fees. as a membership club warehouse, sam's club facility sizes generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet. sam's club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . sam's club segment club count and retail square feet (1) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 600 79,316 2009 11 611 80,986 2010 6 (12 ) 605 80,539 2011 4 609 81,202 2012 3 (1 ) 611 81,586 2013 9 620 82,653 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. 11 merchandise. sam's club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as "member's mark" and its own proprietary brands, "artisan fresh," "bakers &amp; chef," "daily chef" and "simply right," in five merchandise categories, listed below. grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture and photo processing; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services and over-the-counter drugs. the percentage of net sales for the sam's club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011: fiscal years ended january 31, merchandise category 2013 2012 2011 grocery and consumables 55% 55% 55% fuel and other categories 24% 24% 23% technology, office and entertainment 8% 8% 9% home and apparel 8% 8% 8% health and wellness 5% 5% 5% total 100% 100% 100% 12 operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members and plus members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members' health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam's club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climates. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. sam's club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food products to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2013 , approximately 64% of the sam's club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam's club segment's dedicated distribution facilities or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's purchases directly to sam's club locations. as of january 31, 2013 , our sam's club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated eight. we owned and a third party operated two facilities. third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. additionally, some of the walmart u.s. distribution facilities also service our sam's club segment for certain items. the principal focus of our sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. 13 other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2013 ("annual report to shareholders") under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 14 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference herein. employees as of the end of fiscal 2013 , the company and its subsidiaries employed nearly 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with more than 1.3 million associates in the u.s. and more than 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our annual report to shareholders in note 12 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s., the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam's club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s. the company's medical plan in the u.s. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. similarly, in our operations outside the u.s., the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 14 executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age neil m. ashe executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, global ecommerce, beginning in january 2012. from april 2011 to july 2011, he served as special advisor to the chief executive officer of cbs corporation, a mass media company. from july 2008 to april 2011, he served as president of cbs interactive, inc., an internet content publisher. from october 2006 to june 2008, he served as chief executive officer of cnet networks inc., an internet content company. 2012 45 rosalind g. brewer executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 1, 2012. from february 2011 to january 2012, she served as executive vice president and president of the east business unit of walmart u.s. from february 2010 to january 2011, she served as executive vice president and president of the south business unit of walmart u.s. from march 2007 to january 2010, she served as divisional senior vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in the southeast. from october 2006 to february 2007, she served as regional vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in georgia. 2012 50 m. susan chambers executive vice president, global people. from december 2003 to april 2006, she served as executive vice president, risk management, insurance and benefits administration. 2006 55 leslie a. dach executive vice president, corporate affairs. from march 1997 to august 2006, he served as vice chairman of daniel j. edelman, inc. 2006 58 michael t. duke president and chief executive officer. from september 2005 to january 2009, he served as vice chairman, wal-mart stores, inc., responsible for walmart international. 2009 63 rollin l. ford executive vice president and chief administrative officer. from may 2006 to january 2012, he served as executive vice president, chief information officer. from february 2003 to april 2006, he served as executive vice president, logistics and supply chain. 2012 50 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president and corporate secretary. from july 2010 to february 2013, he served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. from february 2009 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, general counsel. from december 2007 to february 2009, he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel. from september 2003 to december 2007, he served as vice president, general counsel, corporate division. 2010 48 charles m. holley, jr. executive vice president and chief financial officer. from january 2007 to november 2010, he served as executive vice president, finance and treasurer. from december 2005 to january 2007, he served as senior vice president, finance. 2010 56 c. douglas mcmillon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. from august 2005 to january 2009, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club. 2009 46 william s. simon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. from march 2007 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer, walmart u.s. from march 2006 to march 2007, he served as executive vice president, professional services, walmart u.s. 2010 53 s. robson walton chairman of the board of directors. 1992 68 steven p. whaley senior vice president and controller. from december 2005 to january 2007, he served as vice president and controller. from september 2005 to december 2005, he served as vice president and assistant controller. 2007 53 15 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.corporate.walmart.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com . these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 16 item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the u.s., higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our walmart u.s. segment and sam's club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the u.s. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our walmart international segment. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may face impediments to our expansion in the u.s., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the u.s. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other store formats, and sam's clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other small formats or sam's clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 17 impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing walmart international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam's clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the u.s., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our walmart international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our walmart international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our walmart international segment and our future financial performance. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 18 we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see "item 1. business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. 19 our walmart international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance. we are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, china, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries in africa, central america, chile, china and mexico; our joint ventures in india and china; and other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2013 , our walmart international operations generated approximately 29% of our consolidated net sales. as a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the u.s., we expect that our walmart international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our walmart international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our walmart international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our walmart international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the uk bribery act. we maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance. natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan or superstorm sandy in the u.s. in 2012, and could adversely affect our financial performance. in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages. 20 we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in june 2001 in the u.s. district court for the northern district of california, asserting that the company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. on june 21, 2004, the u.s. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs' motion for class certification. as defined by the u.s. district court, the class included "[a]ll women employed at any wal-mart domestic retail store at any time since december 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to wal-mart's challenged pay and management track promotions policies and practices." the company appealed the order to the ninth circuit court of appeals and subsequently to the u.s. supreme court. on june 20, 2011, the supreme court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to the district court. on october 27, 2011, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the company's california retail facilities, and the company filed a motion to dismiss on january 13, 2012. on september 21, 2012, the court denied the motion. on october 28, 2011 , the attorneys for the plaintiffs in the dukes case filed a similar complaint in the united states district court for the northern district of texas entitled odle v. wal-mart stores, inc. , proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in any walmart region that includes stores located in the state of texas. on october 15, 2012, the court in the odle case granted the company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations and the individual claims of the lead plaintiff, stephanie odle. on october 2, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the united states district court for the middle district of tennessee entitled phipps v. wal-mart stores, inc ., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "region 43, centered in middle and western tennessee." on february 20, 2013, the court in the phipps case granted the company's motion to dismiss, and dismissed the plaintiffs' class action allegations with prejudice. on october 4, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the united states district court for the southern district of florida, entitled love v. wal-mart stores, inc ., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in certain designated stores and clubs in regions centered in the state of florida. on october 25, 2012, the company filed a motion to dismiss the florida complaint. finally, on february 20, 2013, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the united states district court for the western district of wisconsin, entitled ladik v. wal-mart stores, inc. , proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "region 14, which includes wal-mart retail stores located in parts of wisconsin, illinois, indiana and michigan." on march 15, 2013, the company filed its motion to dismiss the wisconsin complaint. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "item 3. legal proceedings" and in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. 21 we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. the audit committee of our board of directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including wal-mart de m xico, s.a.b. de c.v., or walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct. we are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for fcpa compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs. since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the audit committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the fcpa. inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential fcpa violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, brazil, china and india. in november 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec, and we have been informed by the doj and the sec that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the fcpa. a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of walmex's current and former officers. we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review. moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (in addition to the $157 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2013) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers. these matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences. our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues. while we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our global ecommerce business, could be adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us over our merchandising websites, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. in addition, we offer a "site-to-store" program under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. any failure on our part to provide the necessary technological interfaces with our merchandising programs, including user friendly software applications for smart phones and tablets, could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of online and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have an adverse impact on the growth of our global ecommerce business and negatively affect our results of operations. 22 any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates and vendors, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could adversely affect our operating results. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, and we also receive personal information concerning our associates and vendors. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com , www.samsclub.com and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. each year, computer hackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. we maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information. as a result of those measures, the past attempts by computer hackers to gain access to the information stored on our information systems have been unsuccessful. nevertheless, it is possible that computer hackers and others (through cyberattacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means) might defeat our security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, associates and vendors that we hold. such an occurrence could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. moreover, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "market risk" under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors," and may discuss in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q. in addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors and other risks in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and disclose other risks in other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports mentioned above, as well as other risks not known to us at this time, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 4 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2014 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere in retail stores, online, and through their mobile devices. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"), while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our operations comprise three reportable business segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2014 ("fiscal 2014"), january 31, 2013 ("fiscal 2013") and january 31, 2012 ("fiscal 2012"). during fiscal 2014, we generated total revenues of $ 476 billion , which was primarily comprised of net sales of $473 billion . walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the u.s., washington d.c. and puerto rico, as well as its online retail operations, walmart.com. walmart u.s. generated approximately 59% of our net sales in fiscal 2014 and, of our three segments, historically has had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"), and contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. walmart international consists of the company's operations in 26 countries outside of the u.s. and its operations include numerous formats of retail stores, wholesale clubs, including sam's clubs, restaurants, banks and various retail websites. walmart international generated approximately 29% of our fiscal 2014 net sales. the overall gross profit rate for walmart international is lower than that of walmart u.s. because of the margin impact from its merchandise mix. walmart international has generally been our most rapidly growing segment, growing primarily through new stores and acquisitions and, in recent years, has been growing its net sales and operating income at a faster rate than our other segments. however, for fiscal 2014, walmart international sales growth slowed due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, as well as no significant acquisitions, and operating income declined as a result of certain operating expenses. sam's club consists of warehouse membership clubs and operates in 48 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico, as well as its online operations, samsclub.com. sam's club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2014 net sales. sam's club operates as a warehouse membership club with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1984, we opened our first three sam's clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has continued to expand and at january 31, 2014 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 26 countries. 5 information about our segments the company is engaged in the operation of: retail stores and membership clubs located throughout the u.s.; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in africa, central america, chile, china and mexico; and its joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china. the company defines its reportable segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the walmart u.s. segment includes the company's mass merchant concept in the u.s. operating under the "walmart" or "wal-mart" brands, as well as walmart.com. the walmart international segment consists of the company's operations outside of the u.s., including various retail websites. the sam's club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the u.s., as well as samsclub.com. corporate and support consists of corporate overhead and other items not allocated to any of our segments. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $279.4 billion , $274.4 billion and $264.2 billion for fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, with supercenters in 48 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, discount stores in 43 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 31 states and puerto rico. supercenters range in size from 70,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 179,000 square feet. discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 105,000 square feet. neighborhood markets and other small formats range in size up to 66,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 40,000 square feet. from time to time, walmart u.s. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com. walmart u.s. segment retail unit count and retail square feet (1) walmart u.s. supercenters walmart u.s. discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened closed conversions (2) total square feet balance forward 2,620 487,907 898 97,156 2010 49 86 2,755 510,757 (2 ) (86 ) 810 87,721 2011 50 102 2,907 534,577 (102 ) 708 75,116 2012 43 79 3,029 552,237 (79 ) 629 66,402 2013 55 74 3,158 570,409 7 (1 ) (74 ) 561 59,098 2014 72 58 3,288 589,858 4 (57 ) 508 53,496 walmart u.s. neighborhood markets and other small formats total walmart u.s. segment fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened (3) closed total square feet balance forward 185 7,193 3,703 592,256 2010 5 190 7,374 54 (2 ) 3,755 605,852 2011 2 (3 ) 189 7,374 52 (3 ) 3,804 617,067 2012 27 (6 ) 210 8,047 70 (6 ) 3,868 626,686 2013 79 (3 ) 286 11,226 141 (4 ) 4,005 640,733 2014 122 (1 ) 407 15,778 198 4,203 659,132 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. 6 merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services and over-the-counter drugs; hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise; apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d cor, outdoor living and horticulture. the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual net sales. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "equate," "everstart," "faded glory," "george," "great value," "hometrends," "mainstays," "marketside," "no boundaries," "ol' roy," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "price first," "prima della," "sam's choice," "spring valley" and "white stag." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "danskin now," "disney," "general electric," "op," "rival" and "starter." the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012: fiscal years ended january 31, strategic merchandise units 2014 2013 2012 grocery 56% 55% 55% entertainment 11% 11% 12% health and wellness 10% 11% 11% hardlines 9% 9% 9% apparel 7% 7% 7% home 7% 7% 6% total 100% 100% 100% periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period's presentation to maintain comparability. operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets, are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through paypal. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers' health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. 7 competition. the walmart u.s. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. we also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; save even more and ad match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price; store of the community: a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; and clean, fast and friendly: our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. distribution. for fiscal 2014 , approximately 80% of the walmart u.s. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise is transported primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our walmart u.s. segment operations are supported by 132 distribution facilities, including return facilities and e-commerce fulfillment centers, as of january 31, 2014 . of these 132 facilities, we owned and operated 102. we owned and third parties operated two facilities, and we leased and operated three facilities. third parties owned and operated the remaining 25 facilities. in addition to servicing the walmart u.s. segment, some of our walmart distribution facilities also service our sam's club segment for certain items. 8 walmart international segment the walmart international segment's net sales for fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , were $136.5 billion , $134.7 billion and $125.4 billion , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. our walmart international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua), chile, china and mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china. walmart international operates units in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, retail websites, warehouse clubs, restaurants, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores. generally, retail units range in size from 5,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in brazil, chile, japan, mexico and the united kingdom, range in size up to 4,200 square feet. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at various websites we operate. also, on a limited basis, our walmart international segment operates banks that provide consumer financing programs. walmart international segment unit count (1) and retail square feet (2) africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 28 4,301 349 26,594 318 39,501 502 8,277 197 9,564 2010 43 5,185 434 28,695 317 40,225 519 8,441 252 10,437 2011 63 6,211 479 30,272 325 42,005 549 8,739 279 11,115 2012 347 18,529 88 7,270 512 31,575 333 43,738 622 9,501 316 11,785 2013 377 19,775 94 7,531 558 32,494 379 48,354 642 9,873 329 12,671 2014 379 20,513 104 8,062 556 32,501 389 49,914 661 10,427 380 13,697 china india japan (3) mexico (4) united kingdom total walmart international fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 225 39,973 417 24,514 839 60,491 358 29,011 3,233 242,226 2010 279 49,401 1 50 414 24,292 1,109 66,504 371 30,053 3,739 263,283 2011 328 56,317 5 270 414 24,513 1,364 73,620 385 31,009 4,191 284,071 2012 370 62,124 15 826 419 24,521 1,724 82,611 541 33,765 5,287 326,245 2013 393 65,801 20 1,083 438 24,448 1,988 88,833 565 34,810 5,783 345,673 2014 405 67,205 20 1,083 438 24,489 2,199 94,900 576 35,416 6,107 358,207 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31. for the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of january 31, 2009. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) all periods include the wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. the information for the balance forward excludes 23 seiyu units closed in fiscal 2010. (4) all periods presented exclude units and square feet for the vips restaurant business, which is classified as discontinued operations as of january 31, 2014. the company has entered into an agreement to sell the operations of the vips restaurant business, subject to regulatory approval. 9 unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2014 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 285 94 379 argentina 104 104 brazil 468 76 12 556 canada 389 389 central america (4) 660 1 661 chile 351 2 27 380 china 395 10 405 india 20 20 japan 374 64 438 mexico (5) 2,033 156 10 2,199 united kingdom 574 2 576 total 5,633 359 115 6,107 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2013 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31, 2014 . (2) "other" includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under varying banners in brazil, chile, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 11 ), ghana ( 1 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 7 ), namibia ( 3 ), nigeria ( 2 ), south africa ( 346 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 1 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 214 ), el salvador ( 83 ), guatemala ( 209 ), honduras ( 75 ) and nicaragua ( 80 ). (5) mexico unit counts exclude 360 units of the vips restaurant business classified as discontinued operations as of january 31, 2014. the company has entered into an agreement to sell the operations of the vips restaurant business, subject to regulatory approval. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the u.s. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the walmart international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers and credit cards issued by our subsidiaries in canada, chile and mexico. limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the walmart international segment, we are leveraging our best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. we also operate some restaurants and, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations. we compete with others for desirable sites for new retail units. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which walmart international operates. we believe edlp is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets and we are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to edlp. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 151 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2014 , approximately 80% of the walmart international segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 151 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 42 , we owned and third parties operated 11 , and we leased and operated 62 . third parties leased and operated the remaining 36 distribution facilities. 10 sam's club segment the sam's club segment had net sales of $57.2 billion , $56.4 billion and $53.8 billion for fiscal 2014 , 2013 and 2012 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. sam's clubs are membership only operations. members include both business owners and individual consumers. individual consumers are referred to as savings members (formerly advantage members). the annual membership fee for an individual savings member is $45 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $45 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $45 each. sam's club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both business and savings members. the annual fee for a business or savings plus member (formerly advantage plus members) is $100. in addition, business plus members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $45 each. taxes, if applicable, are added to all membership fees. as a membership club warehouse, sam's club facility sizes generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. sam's club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com. sam's club segment club count and retail square feet (1) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 611 80,986 2010 6 (12 ) 605 80,539 2011 4 609 81,202 2012 3 (1 ) 611 81,586 2013 9 620 82,653 2014 12 632 84,382 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. merchandise. sam's club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as "member's mark" and its own proprietary brands, "artisan fresh," "bakers &amp; chef," "daily chef" and "simply right," in five merchandise categories, listed below. grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. 11 the percentage of net sales for the sam's club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012: fiscal years ended january 31, merchandise category 2014 2013 2012 grocery and consumables 56% 55% 55% fuel and other categories 23% 24% 24% home and apparel 8% 8% 8% technology, office and entertainment 8% 8% 8% health and wellness 5% 5% 5% total 100% 100% 100% operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer business members and plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members' health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam's club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers, gasoline stations and catalog businesses. sam's club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our savings and business members. our strategy allows us to differentiate ourselves within the warehouse club industry and the overall retail industry. distribution. during fiscal 2014 , approximately 64% of the sam's club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam's club segment's dedicated distribution facilities or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's purchases directly to sam's club locations. as of january 31, 2014 , our sam's club segment operations were supported by 23 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 23 distribution facilities, we owned and operated eight . third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. additionally, some of the walmart u.s. distribution facilities also service our sam's club segment for certain items. the principal focus of our sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. 12 other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2014 ("annual report to shareholders") under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 14 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein. employees as of the end of fiscal 2014 , the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly 1.4 million associates in the u.s. and 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our annual report to shareholders in note 12 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s., the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam's club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s. the company's medical plan in the u.s. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. similarly, in the operations outside the u.s., the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 13 executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age neil m. ashe executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, global ecommerce, beginning in january 2012. from april 2011 to july 2011, he served as special advisor to the chief executive officer of cbs corporation, a mass media company. from july 2008 to april 2011, he served as president of cbs interactive, inc., an internet content publisher. 2012 46 daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, beginning in june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. he previously served in the white house from 2001 to 2007 as counselor to the president and communications director. 2013 42 rosalind g. brewer executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 1, 2012. from february 2011 to january 2012, she served as executive vice president and president of the east business unit of walmart u.s. from february 2010 to january 2011, she served as executive vice president and president of the south business unit of walmart u.s. from march 2007 to january 2010, she served as divisional senior vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in the southeast. 2012 51 m. susan chambers executive vice president, global people. 2006 56 david cheesewright executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. from september 2011 to january 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for walmart international's europe, middle east and africa (emea) and canada region. from february 2008 to september 2011, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart canada. 2014 51 michael t. duke chairman of the executive committee of the board of directors of wal-mart stores, inc. he is the former president and chief executive officer of wal-mart stores, inc., serving in that position from february 2009 to january 2014. 2014 64 rollin l. ford executive vice president and chief administrative officer. from may 2006 to january 2012, he served as executive vice president, chief information officer. 2012 51 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president, global governance and corporate secretary. from july 2010 to january 2013, he served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. from february 2009 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, general counsel. 2013 49 charles m. holley, jr. executive vice president and chief financial officer. from january 2007 to november 2010, he served as executive vice president, finance and treasurer. 2010 57 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 47 william s. simon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. from march 2007 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer, walmart u.s. 2010 54 steven p. whaley senior vice president and controller. 2007 54 14 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.corporate.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 15 item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our business, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the u.s. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and consolidated operating results. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, e-commerce retail or a combination of both retail offerings, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our e-commerce businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings. a critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience and convenience. these factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, e-commerce offerings or through a combination of these retail offerings, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. 16 we may face impediments to our expansion in the u.s., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy in the u.s. depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the u.s. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other store formats, and sam's clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local real estate, land use, zoning, and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other small formats or sam's clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing walmart international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam's clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the u.s., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our walmart international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our walmart international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our walmart international segment and our future financial performance. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 17 we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, e-commerce retail or through a combination of both areas), which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see "item 1. business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in each of our reportable segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. 18 our walmart international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance. we are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa, central america, chile, china and mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2014 , our walmart international operations generated approximately 29% of our consolidated net sales. as a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the u.s., we expect that our walmart international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our walmart international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our walmart international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our walmart international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the uk bribery act. we maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance. 19 natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan, superstorm sandy in the u.s. in 2012, or numerous winter storm systems in the u.s. in 2013 and 2014, and could adversely affect our financial performance. in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages. significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in june 2001 in the united states district court for the northern district of california, asserting that the company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys' fees. on june 21, 2004, the u.s. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs' motion for class certification. as defined by the u.s. district court, the class included "[a]ll women employed at any wal-mart domestic retail store at any time since december 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to wal-mart's challenged pay and management track promotions policies and practices." the company appealed the order to the ninth circuit court of appeals and subsequently to the united states supreme court. on june 20, 2011, the supreme court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to the district court. on october 27, 2011, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the company's california retail facilities, and the company filed a motion to dismiss on january 13, 2012. on september 21, 2012, the court denied the motion. the plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on april 15, 2013. on august 2, 2013, the court denied the motion. on august 16, 2013, the plaintiffs filed a petition for permission to appeal that ruling to the u.s. court of appeals for the ninth circuit. on november 18, 2013, the ninth circuit denied that petition. on october 28, 2011, the attorneys for the plaintiffs in the dukes case filed a similar complaint in the united states district court for the northern district of texas entitled odle v. wal-mart stores, inc. , proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in any walmart region that includes stores located in the state of texas. on october 15, 2012, the court in the odle case granted the company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations and the individual claims of the lead plaintiff, stephanie odle. on march 19, 2013, the u.s. court of appeals for the fifth circuit denied the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal. on october 2, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the united states district court for the middle district of tennessee entitled phipps v. wal-mart stores, inc ., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "region 43, centered in middle and western tennessee." on february 20, 2013, the court in the phipps case granted the company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations. on september 11, 2013, the u.s. court of appeals for the sixth circuit granted the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal that ruling. on october 4, 2012, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the united states district court for the southern district of florida entitled love v. wal-mart stores, inc ., proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in certain designated stores and clubs in regions centered in the state of florida. on september 23, 2013, the court in 20 the love case granted the company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations. finally, on february 20, 2013, the plaintiffs' attorneys filed another similar complaint in the united states district court for the western district of wisconsin, entitled ladik v. wal-mart stores, inc. , proposing a class of current and former female associates employed in "region 14, which includes wal-mart retail stores located in parts of wisconsin, illinois, indiana and michigan." on may 24, 2013, the court in the ladik case granted the company's motion to dismiss, dismissing with prejudice the plaintiffs' class-action allegations. on june 13, 2013, the u.s. court of appeals for the seventh circuit denied the plaintiffs' petition for permission to appeal. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "item 3. legal proceedings" and in note 10 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. the audit committee of our board of directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including wal-mart de m xico, s.a.b. de c.v., or walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct. we are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for fcpa compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs. since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the audit committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the fcpa. inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential fcpa violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, brazil, china and india. in november 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec, and we have been informed by the doj and the sec that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the fcpa. a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of walmex's current and former officers. we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review. moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (incremental to the $282 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2014) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers. these matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences. our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues. while we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse affect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future. 21 if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us over our merchandising websites, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer a "site-to-store" program under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly online merchandising platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of online and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results. as do most retailers, we receive and store certain personal information about our customers in our information systems, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. we also utilize use third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. each year, computer hackers, cyber terrorists, and others make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. we maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us. as a result of these measures and our monitoring processes and procedures, we believe that past attempts by computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others to gain access to the information stored on our information systems have been unsuccessful. nevertheless, it is possible that computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others (through cyberattacks, which are rapidly evolving and becoming increasingly sophisticated, or by other means) might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, associates and vendors that we hold. any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. as a retailer who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the payment card industry data security standard ("pci dss"), issued by the pci council. pci dss contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. despite our compliance with these standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card associations and others. in addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. 22 we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "market risk" under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors," and may discuss in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q. in addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors and other risks in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and disclose other risks in other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made. however, as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by such forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 6 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2015 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere in retail stores or through our e-commerce and mobile capabilities. through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping. physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each market where we operate. digital retail is comprised of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. each week, we serve nearly 260 million customers who visit our over 11,000 stores under 72 banners in 27 countries and e-commerce websites in 11 countries. our strategy is to lead on price, invest to differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience. leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"), while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. price leadership is core to who we are. everyday low cost ("edlc") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers. our digital and physical presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere. we strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience. our operations comprise three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2015 ("fiscal 2015 "), january 31, 2014 ("fiscal 2014 ") and january 31, 2013 ("fiscal 2013 "). during fiscal 2015 , we generated total revenues of $ 485.7 billion , which was primarily comprised of net sales of $482.2 billion . we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol "wmt." the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1983, we opened our first three sam's clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1998, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has continued to expand and as of january 31, 2015 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 26 countries. in 2000, we began our first digital initiative by creating the walmart.com retail website. since then, our digital presence has continued to grow and as of january 31, 2015 , we operated e-commerce websites in 11 countries, providing access to walmart and our various brands around the world. 7 information about our segments the company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units located throughout the u.s., africa, argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. the company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. the company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments. it is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services. walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the u.s., washington d.c. and puerto rico, with three primary store formats, as well as digital retail. walmart u.s. generated approximately 60% of our net sales in fiscal 2015 , and of our three segments, walmart u.s. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). in addition, walmart u.s. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. walmart international consists of operations in 26 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including sam's clubs, cash &amp; carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, restaurants, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail. walmart international generated approximately 28% of our fiscal 2015 net sales. the overall gross profit rate for walmart international is lower than that of walmart u.s. because of its merchandise mix. walmart international is our second largest segment and has grown through acquisitions, as well as by adding retail, wholesale and other units. sam's club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 48 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico, as well as digital retail. sam's club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2015 net sales. as a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. as a result, sam's club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "walmart" or "wal-mart" brands, as well as walmart.com. the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $288.0 billion , $279.4 billion and $274.4 billion for fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. physical. the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in the u.s., including in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, with supercenters in 49 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, discount stores in 42 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 31 states and puerto rico. the following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of january 31, 2015 : minimum square feet maximum square feet average square feet supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 219,000 105,000 neighborhood markets and other small formats (1) (grocery) 1,000 66,000 37,000 (1) other small formats include various test formats used to understand market demands and needs. traditional neighborhood markets average 42,000 square feet. 8 walmart u.s. segment retail unit count and retail square feet (1) supercenters discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened closed conversions (2) total square feet balance forward 2,755 510,757 810 87,721 2011 50 102 2,907 534,577 (102 ) 708 75,116 2012 43 79 3,029 552,237 (79 ) 629 66,402 2013 55 74 3,158 570,409 7 (1 ) (74 ) 561 59,098 2014 72 58 3,288 589,858 4 (57 ) 508 53,496 2015 79 40 3,407 607,415 2 (40 ) 470 49,327 neighborhood markets and other small formats total segment fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened (3) closed total square feet balance forward 190 7,374 3,755 605,852 2011 2 (3 ) 189 7,374 52 (3 ) 3,804 617,067 2012 27 (6 ) 210 8,047 70 (6 ) 3,868 626,686 2013 79 (3 ) 286 11,226 141 (4 ) 4,005 640,733 2014 122 (1 ) 407 15,778 198 4,203 659,132 2015 235 (3 ) 639 23,370 316 (3 ) 4,516 680,112 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. 9 digital. access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services are available to our customers through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. walmart.com experiences on average 60 million unique visits a month and offers access to approximately 8 million skus. digital retail is integrated with our physical stores through services like "walmart pickup" and "pickup today." the walmart u.s. segment also offers digital services like vudu and instawatch. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, over-the-counter drugs and clinical services; entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books; hardlines consist of stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise; apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories; and home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d cor, outdoor living and horticulture. the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual net sales. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "equate," "everstart," "faded glory," "george," "great value," "hometrends," "mainstays," "marketside," "no boundaries," "ol' roy," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "price first," "prima della," "sam's choice," "spring valley" and "white stag." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "danskin now," "farberware," "general electric," "op," "rival," "russell," "starter," "straight talk" and "wild oats." the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 : fiscal years ended january 31, strategic merchandise units 2015 2014 2013 grocery 56% 56% 55% health and wellness 11% 10% 11% entertainment 10% 11% 11% hardlines 9% 9% 9% apparel 7% 7% 7% home 7% 7% 7% total 100% 100% 100% periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, the previous period's presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets, are 24 hours each day. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. 10 competition. the walmart u.s. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, e-commerce and catalog businesses. we also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; edlc: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers; rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; savings catcher, save even more and ad match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price; walmart pickup: place your order online and pick it up for free from a store. the merchandise is delivered through our distribution facilities; pickup today: place your order online and you pick-up at a store within 4 hours for free. the order is fulfilled through existing store inventory; and money back guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. distribution. for fiscal 2015 , approximately 80% of the walmart u.s. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our 134 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. the following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and eleven e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of january 31, 2015 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated leased and third party operated total walmart u.s. distribution facilities 102 2 6 24 134 11 walmart international segment the walmart international segment consists of operations in 26 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including sam's clubs, cash &amp; carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, restaurants, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail. the segment's net sales for fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , were $136.2 billion , $136.5 billion and $134.7 billion , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. physical. our walmart international segment is comprised of physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua), china and mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china. generally, retail units range in size from 4,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in brazil, chile, japan, mexico and the united kingdom, range in size up to 4,200 square feet. also, on a limited basis, our walmart international segment operates banks that provide consumer financing programs. walmart international segment unit count (1) and retail square feet (2) africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 43 5,185 434 28,695 317 40,225 519 8,441 252 10,437 2011 63 6,211 479 30,272 325 42,005 549 8,739 279 11,115 2012 347 18,529 88 7,270 512 31,575 333 43,738 622 9,501 316 11,785 2013 377 19,775 94 7,531 558 32,494 379 48,354 642 9,873 329 12,671 2014 379 20,513 104 8,062 556 32,501 389 49,914 661 10,427 380 13,697 2015 396 21,223 105 8,119 557 33,028 394 50,927 690 11,094 404 14,762 china india japan mexico (3) united kingdom total segment fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 279 49,401 1 50 414 24,292 1,109 66,504 371 30,053 3,739 263,283 2011 328 56,317 5 270 414 24,513 1,364 73,620 385 31,009 4,191 284,071 2012 370 62,124 15 826 419 24,521 1,724 82,611 541 33,765 5,287 326,245 2013 393 65,801 20 1,083 438 24,448 1,988 88,833 565 34,810 5,783 345,673 2014 405 67,205 20 1,083 438 24,489 2,199 94,900 576 35,416 6,107 358,207 2015 411 68,269 20 1,083 431 24,429 2,290 98,419 592 36,277 6,290 367,630 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes restaurants, drugstores and convenience stores. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31. for the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of january 31, 2010 . (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) all periods presented exclude units and square feet for the vips restaurant business. the company completed the sale of the vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015. 12 unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2015 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 302 94 396 argentina 105 105 brazil 468 76 13 557 canada 394 394 central america (4) 689 1 690 chile 377 3 24 404 china 400 11 411 india 20 20 japan 372 59 431 mexico 2,120 160 10 2,290 united kingdom 589 3 592 total 5,816 365 109 6,290 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2014 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31, 2015 . (2) "other" includes restaurants, drug stores, convenience stores and banks operating under varying banners. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 11 ), ghana ( 1 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 5 ), namibia ( 4 ), nigeria ( 6 ), south africa ( 360 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 1 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 217 ), el salvador ( 89 ), guatemala ( 217 ), honduras ( 81 ) and nicaragua ( 86 ). digital. the walmart international segment operates e-commerce websites in 10 countries (argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom). customers have access through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country. digital retail supports our physical stores with capabilities like "click &amp; collect" in the united kingdom and our grocery home delivery business in mexico. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged u.s. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items. along with the private brands we market globally, such as "equate," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "hometrends," "mainstays," "ol' roy" and "parent's choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "aurrera," "cambridge," "chosen by you," "extra special" and "smart price." in addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. each country accepts a variety of payment methods. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home improvement, specialty electronic, e-commerce and catalog businesses in each of the markets in which we operate. we also operate some restaurants and, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations. we compete with others for desirable sites. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which walmart international operates. we believe edlp is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets and we are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to edlp. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. 13 distribution. we utilize a total of 156 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2015 , approximately 80% of the walmart international segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. the following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities as of january 31, 2015 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated leased and third party operated total international distribution facilities 41 11 70 34 156 14 sam's club segment the sam's club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the u.s. and had net sales of $58.0 billion , $57.2 billion and $56.4 billion for fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. membership. the following membership options are available to business owners and individual consumers: membership type business plus savings plus business savings member type business owner individual business owner individual annual membership fee $100 $100 $45 $45 number of add-on memberships ($45 each) up to 16 up to 8 eligible for cash rewards yes yes no no all memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. plus members are eligible for cash rewards, which is a new benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying sam's club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. the amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash. physical. as a membership-only warehouse club, sam's club facility sizes generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. sam's club segment club count and retail square feet (1) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 605 80,539 2011 4 609 81,202 2012 3 (1 ) 611 81,586 2013 9 620 82,653 2014 12 632 84,382 2015 16 (1 ) 647 86,510 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. digital. sam's club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com. digital retail supports our clubs and members through services such as "club pickup" (formerly "click'n'pull"). merchandise. sam's club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as "member's mark" and its own proprietary brands, "daily chef" and "simply right," in five merchandise categories, listed below. grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. the sam's club segment also offers small business services and related products, including affordable health care plans through the aetna marketplace for sam's club, legal solutions from legalzoom, as well as payroll services, merchant payment processing, and travel booking provided by third-parties. 15 the percentage of net sales for the sam's club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2015 , 2014 and 2013 : fiscal years ended january 31, merchandise category 2015 2014 2013 grocery and consumables 57% 56% 55% fuel and other categories 23% 23% 24% home and apparel 8% 8% 8% technology, office and entertainment 7% 8% 8% health and wellness 5% 5% 5% total 100% 100% 100% operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are generally monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer business members and plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the sam's club cash-back mastercard. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam's club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which are costco wholesale and bj's wholesale club, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, e-commerce and catalog businesses. sam's club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our savings and business members. our strategy allows us to differentiate ourselves within the membership-only warehouse club industry and the overall retail industry. distribution. during fiscal 2015 , approximately 66% of the sam's club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam's club segment's 24 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the u.s., or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities, which service the sam's club segment for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's purchases directly to sam's club locations. the table below provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities as of january 31, 2015 . owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated leased and third party operated total sam's club distribution facilities 3 3 2 16 24 the principal focus of sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of a private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. the segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. 16 other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2015 ("annual report to shareholders") under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 14 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein. employees as of the end of fiscal 2015 , the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly 1.4 million associates in the u.s. and 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year. we believe our relationships with our associates are good. on february 19, 2015, the company announced a significant initiative on pay and training for u.s. associates. approximately 500,000 full-time and part-time associates at walmart u.s. stores and sam's clubs will receive pay raises in the first half of fiscal 2016. also included in the announcement were comprehensive changes to our hiring, training, compensation and scheduling programs, as well as to our store management structure. these changes will give our u.s. associates the opportunity to earn higher pay and advance in their careers. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our annual report to shareholders in note 12 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s., the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam's club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s. the company's medical plan in the u.s. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. similarly, in the operations outside the u.s., the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 17 executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age neil m. ashe executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, global ecommerce, beginning in january 2012. from april 2011 to july 2011, he served as special advisor to the chief executive officer of cbs corporation, a mass media company. from july 2008 to april 2011, he served as president of cbs interactive, inc., an internet content publisher. 2012 47 daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, beginning in june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. 2013 43 rosalind g. brewer executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 1, 2012. from february 2011 to january 2012, she served as executive vice president and president of the east business unit of walmart u.s. from february 2010 to january 2011, she served as executive vice president and president of the south business unit of walmart u.s. from march 2007 to january 2010, she served as divisional senior vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in the southeast. 2012 52 m. susan chambers executive vice president, global people. 2006 57 david cheesewright executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international, effective february 1, 2014. from september 2011 to january 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for walmart international's europe, middle east and africa (emea) and canada region. from february 2008 to september 2011, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart canada. 2014 52 gregory foran executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. beginning in august 2014. from may 2014 to august 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for the walmart asia region. from march 2012 to may 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart china. from october 2011 to march 2012, he served as senior vice president responsible for various international projects. from 2009 until july 2011, he served as director of supermarkets, liquor and petrol at woolworths limited, the largest retailer in australia and new zealand. 2014 53 rollin l. ford executive vice president and chief administrative officer, effective february 1, 2012. from may 2006 to january 2012, he served as executive vice president, chief information officer. 2012 52 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president, global governance and corporate secretary, effective february 1, 2013. from july 2010 to january 2013, he served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. from february 2009 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, general counsel. 2013 50 charles m. holley, jr. executive vice president and chief financial officer. from january 2007 to november 2010, he served as executive vice president, finance and treasurer. 2010 58 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer, effective february 1, 2014. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 48 steven p. whaley senior vice president and controller. 2007 55 18 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.corporate.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 19 item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally. global and domestic economic risks and consumer demand risks general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our business, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the u.s. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and consolidated operating results. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, digital retail or a combination of both retail offerings, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings. a critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience and convenience. these factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, digital retail offerings or a combination of these retail offerings, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations. our operations in countries other than the u.s. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the u.s. from local currencies into u.s. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. as a result of such translations, future fluctuations in currency exchange rate over time that are unfavorable to us may result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance. such unfavorable currency exchange rate 20 fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our walmart international operating segment and have a corresponding adverse affect on our reported consolidated results of operations. we may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. when we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of goods sold may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs. consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. capital investment and information systems risks we may face impediments to our expansion in the u.s., including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy in the u.s. depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the u.s. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other store formats, and sam's clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local real estate, land use, zoning, and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other small formats or sam's clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing walmart international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam's clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the u.s., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our walmart international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our walmart international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our walmart international segment and our future financial performance. we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant 21 investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse affect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. competitive and reputational risks our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected. the wage increases for over 500,000 associates in our operations in the u.s. and investment in other initiatives for our associates in the u.s. that we announced in february 2015 will increase our wage and other labor expenses significantly. if the combined impact of the increase in our gross profit and decrease in certain operating expenses in fiscal 2015 and thereafter does not offset the additional wage expense, our consolidated operating income and our consolidated income from continuing operations could be less than our consolidated operating income and consolidated income from continuing operations for recent fiscal years. in addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or through a combination of both areas), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers, as well as other national and international internet-based retailers. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as e-commerce and catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, e-commerce and catalog businesses. such retailers, wholesale club operators and e-commerce retailers compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, the merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, speed of and options for delivery to our customers of the merchandise they purchase from us online and the integration of our physical locations with our digital retail operations. where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could materially adversely affect our financial performance. see "item 1. business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in each of our reportable segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 22 if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us over our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including walmart.com and samsclub.com, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer "walmart pickup" and "club pickup" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. multi-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the u.s. and in a number of markets in which our walmart international segment operates. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. data and privacy risks any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results. as do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. we also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and our websites in certain of our foreign markets depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. each year, computer hackers, cyber terrorists, and others make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. we maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us. as a result of these measures and our monitoring processes and procedures, we believe that past attempts by computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others to gain access to the information stored on our information systems have been unsuccessful. however, we or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate one or more of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which computer hackers, cyber terrorists and others may attempt to defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and breach our or our third-party service providers information systems. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, associates and vendors that we hold or to which our third-party service providers have access, and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. moreover, associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and breach our or our third-party service providers information systems (whether digital or otherwise). any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations. 23 as a retailer who accepts debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to the payment card industry data security standard ("pci dss"), issued by the payment card industry security standards council. pci dss contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. by accepting debit cards for payment, we are also subject to compliance with the american national standards institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines. even though we comply with these guidelines and standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others. in addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. supply chain and third-party risks risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the u.s., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. legal, regulatory and other external risks our walmart international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our business or financial performance. we are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa, central america, china and mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2015 , our walmart international operations generated approximately 28% of our consolidated net sales. as a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the u.s., we expect that our walmart international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. in particular, brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. although the company believes it complies with those laws, the company's subsidiaries in brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in brazil. these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the company, could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other 24 factors which may impact our walmart international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our walmart international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the uk bribery act. we maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance. natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as superstorm sandy in the u.s. in 2012, or numerous winter storm systems in the u.s. in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and could adversely affect our financial performance. in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages. significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws. in addition, asda stores, ltd. ("asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has been named as a defendant in over 4,000 "equal value" claims that are pending in the manchester employment tribunal (the "employment tribunal") in the united kingdom. the claimants, who are current and former asda store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified. the claimants are seeking: (i) back pay consisting of the difference between the wage rate paid in the stores and the rate paid in the warehouses and distribution facilities for the period of their employment up to a maximum of six years under the statute of limitations; and (ii) an increase in the store rate prospectively, to match that paid in the warehouses and the 25 distribution facilities. on january 30, 2015, the employment tribunal held a case management conference in order to set a schedule for addressing jurisdictional challenges and other issues involved in the first phase of the litigation. at this time, it is undetermined: (i) how many of these claims may ultimately be filed; or (ii) whether the employment tribunal will decide to hear each claim individually or to consolidate them into groups of similar claims and proceed with the trial of "test cases." determinations made in such test cases, if any, might be asserted as binding in subsequent trials of claims within that group and any subsequent claims involving the same issues. moreover, a determination as to the appropriate rate of pay for a particular store position might be asserted as the basis for additional claims for back pay or wage increases by other store associates who perform, or who have performed, like work in that position. on march 23, 2015, asda asked the employment tribunal to stay all proceedings, contending that the high court, which is the superior first instance civil court in the uk that is headquartered in the royal courts of justice in the city of london, is the more convenient and appropriate forum to hear these claims. on march 23, 2015, asda also asked the employment tribunal to "strike out" substantially all of the claims for failing to comply with employment tribunal rules. we discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption "item 3. legal proceedings" and in note 10 in the "notes to our consolidated financial statements", which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. the audit committee of our board of directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including wal-mart de m xico, s.a.b. de c.v., or walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct. we are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for fcpa compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs. since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the audit committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the fcpa. inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential fcpa violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, brazil, china and india. in november 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec, and we have been informed by the doj and the sec that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the fcpa. a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of walmex's current and former officers. we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review. moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (incremental to the $173 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2015) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers. these matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences. our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues. while we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse affect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "market risk" under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors," and that we may discuss in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q or otherwise disclose in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements that we make or made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements are made. as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 4 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2016 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere in retail stores or through our e-commerce and mobile capabilities. through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping. physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each market where we operate. digital retail is comprised of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. each week, we serve nearly 260 million customers who visit our over 11,500 stores under 63 banners in 28 countries and e-commerce websites in 11 countries. our strategy is to lead on price, differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience. leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"). edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. price leadership is core to who we are. everyday low cost ("edlc") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers. our digital and physical presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere. we strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience. our operations comprise three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2016 ("fiscal 2016 "), january 31, 2015 ("fiscal 2015 ") and january 31, 2014 ("fiscal 2014 "). during fiscal 2016 , we generated total revenues of $482.1 billion , which was primarily comprised of net sales of $478.6 billion . we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol "wmt." the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1983, we opened our first sam's club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1998, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has continued to expand and, as of january 31, 2016 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 27 countries. in 2000, we began our first digital initiative by creating the walmart.com retail website. since then, our digital presence has continued to grow. as of january 31, 2016 , we operated e-commerce websites in 11 countries, providing access to walmart and our various brands around the world. 5 information about our segments the company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units located throughout the u.s., africa, argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. the company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. the company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments. it is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services. walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the u.s., washington d.c. and puerto rico, with three primary store formats, as well as digital retail. walmart u.s. generated approximately 62% of our net sales in fiscal 2016 , and of our three segments, walmart u.s. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). in addition, walmart u.s. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. walmart international consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including sam's clubs, cash &amp; carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail. walmart international generated approximately 26% of our fiscal 2016 net sales. the overall gross profit rate for walmart international is lower than that of walmart u.s. primarily because of its merchandise mix. walmart international is our second largest segment and has grown through acquisitions, as well as by adding retail, wholesale and other units. sam's club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 48 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico, as well as digital retail. sam's club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2016 net sales. as a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. as a result, sam's club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "walmart" or "wal-mart" brands, as well as walmart.com. the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $298.4 billion , $288.0 billion and $279.4 billion for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company consolidated net sales. physical. the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in the u.s., including in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, with supercenters in 49 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, discount stores in 41 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 31 states and puerto rico. the following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of january 31, 2016 : minimum square feet maximum square feet average square feet supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 206,000 104,000 neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 28,000 66,000 42,000 (1) excludes other small formats which include various test formats used to understand market demands and needs. 6 walmart u.s. segment retail unit count and retail square feet (1) supercenters discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened closed conversions (2) total square feet balance forward 2,907 534,577 708 75,116 2012 43 79 3,029 552,237 (79 ) 629 66,402 2013 55 74 3,158 570,409 7 (1 ) (74 ) 561 59,098 2014 72 58 3,288 589,858 4 (57 ) 508 53,496 2015 79 40 3,407 607,415 2 (40 ) 470 49,327 2016 55 (16 ) 19 3,465 616,428 (9 ) (19 ) 442 45,991 neighborhood markets and other small formats total segment fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened (3) closed (4) total square feet balance forward 189 7,374 3,804 617,067 2012 27 (6 ) 210 8,047 70 (6 ) 3,868 626,686 2013 79 (3 ) 286 11,226 141 (4 ) 4,005 640,733 2014 122 (1 ) 407 15,778 198 4,203 659,132 2015 235 (3 ) 639 23,370 316 (3 ) 4,516 680,112 2016 161 (133 ) 667 27,228 216 (158 ) 4,574 689,647 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (4) of the 158 stores closed in fiscal 2016, 149 stores were closed following the announcement on january 15, 2016 of the closure of 269 stores globally. the fiscal 2016 store closures included 102 express format locations of walmart u.s., which were included in the neighborhood markets and other small formats category. 7 digital. walmart u.s. provides its customers access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services online through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. walmart.com experiences on average 85 million unique visits a month and offers access to approximately 8 million skus. in addition, our e-commerce website includes marketplace, a feature of the website that permits third parties to sell merchandise on walmart.com. digital retail is integrated with our physical stores through services like "walmart pickup," "pickup today" and "online grocery." the walmart u.s. segment also offers access to digital content and services including vudu and instawatch. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats, as well as walmart.com. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural &amp; organics, deli &amp; bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, over-the-counter drugs and other medical products; entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books; hardlines consist of stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise; apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories; and home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, outdoor living and horticulture. the walmart u.s. segment also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual net sales. national brand merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "equate," "everstart," "faded glory," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "hometrends," "mainstays," "marketside," "no boundaries," "ol' roy," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "prima della," "pure balance," "sam's choice," "special kitty," "spring valley" and "white stag." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "danskin now," "farberware," "general electric," "op," "rival," "russell," "starter," and "straight talk." the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 : fiscal years ended january 31, strategic merchandise units 2016 2015 2014 grocery 56% 56% 56% health and wellness 11% 11% 10% entertainment 9% 10% 11% hardlines 9% 9% 9% apparel 8% 7% 7% home 7% 7% 7% total 100% 100% 100% periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, the previous period's presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters, and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets, are 24 hours each day. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. 8 competition. the walmart u.s. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, e-commerce and catalog businesses. we also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; edlc: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers; rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; savings catcher, save even more and ad match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price; walmart pickup: customer places order online and picks it up for free from a store. the merchandise is fulfilled through our distribution facilities; pickup today: customer places order online and picks it up at a store within four hours for free. the order is fulfilled through existing store inventory; online grocery: customer places grocery order online and has it delivered to home or picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations; and money back guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. in addition, our retail website and mobile commerce applications are important factors in our competition with other retailers, particularly e-commerce retailers. distribution. for fiscal 2016 , approximately 79% of the walmart u.s. segment's purchases of merchandise were shipped through our 137 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. walmart u.s. ships merchandise purchased by customers on its retail website and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from its dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers. the following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and 13 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of january 31, 2016 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total walmart u.s. distribution facilities 102 2 10 23 137 walmart international segment the walmart international segment consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including sam's clubs, cash &amp; carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail. the segment's net sales for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , were $123.4 billion , $136.2 billion and $136.5 billion , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. physical. our walmart international segment is comprised of physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, kenya, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua) and mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china. generally, retail units range in size from 4,000 square feet to 185,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in brazil, chile, japan, mexico and the united kingdom, range in size up to 2,400 square feet. also, on a limited basis, our walmart international segment operates financial institutions that provide consumer credit. 9 walmart international segment unit count (1) and retail square feet (2) africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 63 6,211 479 30,272 325 42,005 549 8,739 279 11,115 2012 347 18,529 88 7,270 512 31,575 333 43,738 622 9,501 316 11,785 2013 377 19,775 94 7,531 558 32,494 379 48,354 642 9,873 329 12,671 2014 379 20,513 104 8,062 556 32,501 389 49,914 661 10,427 380 13,697 2015 396 21,223 105 8,119 557 33,028 394 50,927 690 11,094 404 14,762 2016 408 21,869 108 8,280 499 30,675 400 51,784 709 11,410 395 15,407 china india japan mexico (3) united kingdom total segment (4) fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 328 56,317 5 270 414 24,513 1,364 73,620 385 31,009 4,191 284,071 2012 370 62,124 15 826 419 24,521 1,724 82,611 541 33,765 5,287 326,245 2013 393 65,801 20 1,083 438 24,448 1,988 88,833 565 34,810 5,783 345,673 2014 405 67,205 20 1,083 438 24,489 2,199 94,900 576 35,416 6,107 358,207 2015 411 68,269 20 1,083 431 24,429 2,290 98,419 592 36,277 6,290 367,630 2016 432 71,724 21 1,146 346 22,551 2,360 100,308 621 37,044 6,299 372,198 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31. for the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of the end of fiscal year 2011. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) all periods presented exclude units and square feet for the vips restaurant business. the company completed the sale of the vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015. (4) there were 189 store closures in fiscal 2016, of which 60 stores were closed in relation to the announcement on january 15, 2016 of the closure of 269 stores globally. 10 unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2016 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 318 90 408 argentina 108 108 brazil 414 71 14 499 canada 400 400 central america (4) 709 709 chile 392 3 395 china 420 12 432 india 21 21 japan 346 346 mexico 2,189 161 10 2,360 united kingdom 603 18 621 total 5,899 358 42 6,299 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2015 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31, 2016 . (2) other includes drug stores and convenience stores operating under varying banners. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 11 ), ghana ( 1 ), kenya ( 1 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 6 ), namibia ( 4 ), nigeria ( 8 ), south africa ( 366 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 3 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 225 ), el salvador ( 91 ), guatemala ( 223 ), honduras ( 82 ) and nicaragua ( 88 ). digital. the walmart international segment operates e-commerce websites in 10 countries (argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom). customers have access through our e-commerce websites and, in countries where available, mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country. digital retail supports our physical stores with capabilities like "click &amp; collect" in the united kingdom and our grocery home delivery business in mexico. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged u.s. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items. along with the private brands we market globally, such as "equate," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "hometrends," "mainstays," "ol' roy" and "parent's choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "aurrera," "cambridge," "chosen by you," "extra special" and "smart price." in addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. each country accepts a variety of payment methods. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home improvement, specialty electronic, e-commerce and catalog businesses in each of the markets in which we operate. we also operate, on a limited basis, consumer finance operations. we compete with others for desirable sites. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which walmart international operates. we believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an edlp approach. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. in the markets in which we have retail websites or retail websites and mobile commerce applications, those websites and applications help differentiate us from our competitors and help us compete with other retailers for customers and their purchases, both in the digital and the physical retail operations. 11 distribution. we utilize a total of 176 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2016 , approximately 77% of the walmart international segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. the following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities, including 19 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of december 31, 2015, with the exception of distribution facilities in canada, which is stated as of january 31, 2016 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total international distribution facilities 45 11 72 48 176 we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our retail websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers. sam's club segment the sam's club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the u.s. and had net sales of $56.8 billion , $58.0 billion and $57.2 billion for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. membership. the following membership options are available to business owners and individual consumers: membership type business plus savings plus business savings member type business owner individual business owner individual annual membership fee $100 $100 $45 $45 number of add-on memberships ($45 each) up to 16 up to 8 eligible for cash rewards yes yes no no all memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. plus members are eligible for cash rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying sam's club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. the amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash. physical. as a membership-only warehouse club, sam's club facility sizes generally range between 71,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. sam's club segment club count and retail square feet (1) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 609 81,202 2012 3 (1 ) 611 81,586 2013 9 620 82,653 2014 12 632 84,382 2015 16 (1 ) 647 86,510 2016 8 655 87,552 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. digital. sam's club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce application. samsclub.com experiences on average 16 million unique visits a month and offers access to approximately 51,000 skus providing the member the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "club pickup." merchandise. sam's club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label brands such as "member's mark" in five merchandise categories, listed below. 12 grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. the percentage of net sales for the sam's club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2016 , 2015 and 2014 : fiscal years ended january 31, merchandise category 2016 2015 2014 grocery and consumables 59% 57% 56% fuel and other categories 20% 23% 23% home and apparel 9% 8% 8% technology, office and entertainment 7% 7% 8% health and wellness 5% 5% 5% total 100% 100% 100% operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are generally monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer business members and plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the sam's club "cash back" mastercard. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam's club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which are costco wholesale and bj's wholesale club, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, e-commerce and catalog businesses. sam's club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our savings and business members. our strategy allows us to differentiate ourselves within the membership-only warehouse club industry and the overall retail industry. our e-commerce website and mobile commerce application have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete with other membership-only warehouse clubs. distribution. during fiscal 2016 , approximately 69% of the sam's club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam's club segment's 24 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the u.s., or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities, which service the sam's club segment for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's purchases directly to sam's club locations. the table below provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities, including one e-commerce dedicated fulfillment center and two dedicated import facilities, as of january 31, 2016 . owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total sam's club distribution facilities 3 3 2 16 24 the principal focus of sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of a private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. the segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. sam's club ships merchandise purchased by members on its retail website and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its e-commerce dedicated fulfillment center and other distribution centers. 13 other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2016 ("annual report to shareholders") under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 14 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. such portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein. suppliers and supply chain as a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the united states, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores and clubs. in many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers. our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members. employees as of the end of fiscal 2016 , the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.3 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly 1.5 million associates in the u.s. and 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year. we believe our relationships with our associates are good. on february 19, 2015, the company announced a significant initiative on pay and training for u.s. associates. approximately 500,000 full-time and part-time associates at walmart u.s. stores and sam's clubs received pay raises in the first half of fiscal 2016 and in february 2016, approximately 1.2 million full-time and part-time associates at walmart u.s. stores and sam's clubs received pay increases. also included in the announcement were comprehensive changes to our hiring, training, compensation and scheduling programs, as well as to our store management structure. these changes will give our u.s. associates the opportunity to earn higher pay and advance in their careers. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our annual report to shareholders in note 12 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s., the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam's club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases of our stock by associates through our associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s. the company's medical plan in the u.s. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. similarly, in the operations outside the u.s., the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. 14 name business experience current position held since age neil m. ashe executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, global ecommerce and technology, beginning in february 2016, and from january 2012 to january 2016 served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, global ecommerce. from april 2011 to july 2011, he served as special advisor to the chief executive officer of cbs corporation, a mass media company. from july 2008 to april 2011, he served as president of cbs interactive, inc., an internet content publisher. 2012 48 daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, beginning in june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. 2013 44 m. brett biggs executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective january 1, 2016. from january 2014 to december 2015, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart international. from january 2013 to january 2014, he was executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart u.s. and from january 2012 to january 2013, he was senior vice president and chief financial officer of walmart u.s. from september 2010 to january 2012, he served as senior vice president, sam's club operations. 2016 47 rosalind g. brewer executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 1, 2012. from february 2011 to january 2012, she served as executive vice president and president of the east business unit of walmart u.s. from february 2010 to january 2011, she served as executive vice president and president of the south business unit of walmart u.s. from march 2007 to january 2010, she served as divisional senior vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in the southeast. 2012 53 jacqueline p. canney executive vice president, global people, effective august 3, 2015. from september 2003 to july 2015, she served as the managing director of global human resources at accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services, and outsourcing company, and prior to 2003, she served in a variety of human resource roles during her career with accenture that began in 1989. 2015 48 david cheesewright executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international, effective february 1, 2014. from september 2011 to january 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for walmart international's europe, middle east and africa (emea) and canada region. from february 2008 to september 2011, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart canada. 2014 53 gregory foran executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. beginning in august 2014. from may 2014 to august 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for the walmart asia region. from march 2012 to may 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart china. from october 2011 to march 2012, he served as senior vice president responsible for various international projects. from 2009 until july 2011, he served as director of supermarkets, liquor and petrol at woolworths limited, the largest retailer in australia and new zealand. 2014 54 rollin l. ford executive vice president and chief administrative officer, effective february 1, 2012. from may 2006 to january 2012, he served as executive vice president, chief information officer. 2012 53 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president, global governance and corporate secretary, effective february 1, 2013. from july 2010 to january 2013, he served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. from february 2009 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, general counsel. 2013 51 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer, effective february 1, 2014. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 49 steven p. whaley senior vice president and controller. 2007 56 15 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 16 item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally. strategic risks general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges, other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our business, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, otherwise adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than average incomes in the u.s. these conditions may adversely affect our net sales, gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and consolidated operating results. higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, higher transportation costs, inflation, higher commodity prices, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, currency exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, whether involving physical retail, digital retail or the integration of physical and digital retail, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings. a critical piece of identifying consumer preferences involves price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping. these factors are of primary importance to customers and they continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products online, at physical locations or through a combination of both retail offerings. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences (including the key factors described above) and spending patterns, whether for our physical retail offerings, digital retail offerings or the integration of physical retail and digital retail, could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. 17 we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or through the integration of both areas), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers and wholesale club operators, as well as other national and international internet-based retailers and retail intermediaries. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as e-commerce and catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as e-commerce retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, apparel stores, wholesale clubs, cash &amp; carry operations, convenience stores and e-commerce and catalog businesses. we compete with such retailers, wholesale club operators and e-commerce retailers in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, the merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, cost and speed of and options for delivery to our customers of the merchandise they purchase from us online, through mobile commerce applications and the integration of our physical locations with our digital retail operations. where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could materially adversely affect our financial performance. see "item 1. business" above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in each of our reportable segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, a greater portion of total consumer expenditures with all retailers and wholesale clubs could occur online and through mobile commerce applications. if we fail to maintain or grow our overall market position through the integration of our physical retail presence and digital retail, our net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, a greater concentration of retail and wholesale club sales in online and mobile commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic we have in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such in-store and in-club traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical side of our segments' overall operations. operational risks natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our retail websites and mobile commerce applications to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as superstorm sandy in the u.s. in 2012, or numerous winter storm systems in the u.s. in 2013, 2014 and 2015, and could adversely affect our financial performance. 18 in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages. significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. we expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the u.s., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. if the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by our customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyberattacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our information systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. 19 if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us over our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, including walmart.com and samsclub.com in the u.s. and our retail websites in 10 other countries, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through mobile commerce applications with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we are increasingly using social media to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, we offer "walmart pickup" and "club pickup" and in a growing number of locations, "online grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be shipped to and picked up by the customer at his or her local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. multi-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the u.s. and in a number of markets in which our walmart international segment operates. we must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for new developments and technology investments by our competitors through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and mobile commerce application merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors that we hold, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation with customers, members, associates, vendors and others, could cause us to incur substantial additional costs and to become subject to litigation, and could materially adversely affect our operating results. as do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. we also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers, back-office support, and other functions. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com, www.samsclub.com and our websites in certain of our foreign markets depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. we maintain substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, such information and have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers to protect information from our systems to which they have access to under their engagements with us. however, we or our third-party service providers may be unable to anticipate one or more of the rapidly evolving and increasingly sophisticated means by which cyber-attackers may attempt to defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and breach our or our third-party service providers' information systems. during fiscal 2016, we were notified that a third party service provider that hosts the online photo center for walmart canada suffered a security breach that compromised information of users of that company's site, including some walmart canada customers, which we believe has not had a material impact on walmart canada or the company. walmart canada discontinued use of this third party service provider. sam's club in the united states also used the same third party service provider to host its online photo center through a different system than the one used by walmart canada. after the breach in canada, sam's club suspended the operation of the online photo center until a security review could be completed by the third party service provider. once the security review was complete and new technology with enhanced security measures was implemented by the third party service provider, along with a determination that the information of sam's club members was not compromised by the security breach, sam's club resumed the operation of the online photo center through the same third party service provider. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and are becoming increasingly sophisticated. as cyber threats evolve and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber threats might defeat our security measures or those of our third-party service providers in the future like the incident referenced above and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors that we hold or to which our third-party service providers have access, and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. moreover, associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and breach our or our third-party service providers' information systems (whether digital or otherwise). 20 any breach of our security measures or those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, which could be undetected for a period of time, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers and members whose personal data was compromised and to restore customer and member confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in addition, such events could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures that we employ to guard such important personal information against cyberattacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. by accepting debit and credit cards as a retailer for payment, we are subject to the payment card industry data security standard ("pci dss"), issued by the payment card industry security standards council. pci dss contains compliance guidelines and standards with regard to our security surrounding the physical and electronic storage, processing and transmission of individual cardholder data. the payment card industry set october 1, 2015 as the date on which it will shift liability for certain transactions to retailers who are not able to accept europay, mastercard, visa (emv) chip card credit and debit transactions. while we already accept many emv cards, if we are unable to fully implement emv as planned, we may incur increased costs associated with the liability shift. by accepting debit cards for payment, we are also subject to compliance with the american national standards institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines. even though we comply with these guidelines and standards and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyberattacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known malware or malware that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any disruption results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others. in addition, the cost of complying with stricter privacy and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected. the wage increases for over 500,000 associates in our operations in the u.s. and investment in other initiatives for our associates in the u.s. that we announced in february 2015, and related wage increases for 1.2 million associates aggregating $1.5 billion in the year ending january 31, 2017 ("fiscal 2017") will increase our wage and other labor expenses significantly. if we cannot offset the increases in our wage expenses resulting from those wage increases by increasing our gross profit, achieving decreases in our operating, selling, general and administrative expense or a combination of both in the year ending january 31, 2018 and thereafter, our consolidated operating income and our consolidated income from continuing operations could continue to be less than our consolidated operating income and consolidated income from continuing operations for our fiscal years prior to fiscal 2017. in addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase even more significantly for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. 21 we may face impediments to our expansion of physical retail in the u.s., which may materially adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy in the u.s. depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the u.s. and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other store formats, and sam's clubs depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local real estate, land use, zoning, and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states, including in market areas in which we have no existing operations. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. moreover, our expansion in our existing local market areas may be limited if the opening of new stores or clubs would result in an unacceptable level of cannibalization of the sales of existing stores or clubs. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other small formats or sam's clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be materially adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand or in which we build stores of a new format are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing walmart international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam's clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the u.s., our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our walmart international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. economic, business and legal environments in foreign markets may be such that we are unable to expand our operations and increase our net sales in those markets as we may want to do and could result in the closure of our existing units in such markets, which closures impede the growth of our international operations. finally, some countries have foreign investment laws that prohibit us or limit us from holding a controlling interest in retail operations in those countries, making our entry into those markets, which may present attractive growth opportunities, more difficult, if not impossible. if we cannot effectively continue to expand our walmart international segment, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our walmart international segment and our future financial performance. financial risks fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations. our operations in countries other than the u.s. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the u.s. from local currencies into u.s. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. in recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of 22 operations. as a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our walmart international operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations. we may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. when we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. we believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, e-commerce growth rates, gross margin, earnings and earnings per share or new store and club openings could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies. regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks our operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance. we are currently engaged in the operation of retail through our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa, central america and mexico; and our joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries in china in addition to our u.s. operations. during fiscal 2016 , our walmart international operations generated approximately 26% of our consolidated net sales. our divisions also source goods and services from other countries. the future expansion of our operations in countries outside the u.s. could result in our international operations accounting for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. in particular, brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. although the company believes it complies with those laws, the company's subsidiaries in brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in brazil. these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act and the laws and regulations of other countries such as the uk bribery act. we maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our 23 policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. we are also subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. in particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws. in addition, asda stores, ltd. ("asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has been named as a defendant in over 7,000 "equal value" claims that are pending in the manchester employment tribunal (the "employment tribunal") in the united kingdom. the claimants, who are current and former asda store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified. the claimants are seeking: (i) back pay consisting of the difference between the wage rate paid in the stores and the rate paid in the warehouses and distribution facilities for the period of their employment up to a maximum of six years under the statute of limitations; and (ii) an increase in the store rate prospectively, to match that paid in the warehouses and the distribution facilities. on january 30, 2015, the employment tribunal held a case management conference in order to set a schedule for addressing jurisdictional challenges and other issues involved in the first phase of the litigation. at this time, it is undetermined: (i) how many of these claims may ultimately be filed; or (ii) whether the employment tribunal will decide to hear each claim individually or to consolidate them into groups of similar claims and proceed with the trial of "test cases." determinations made in such test cases, if any, might be asserted as binding in subsequent trials of claims within that group and any subsequent claims involving the same issues. moreover, a determination as to the appropriate rate of pay for a particular store position might be asserted as the basis for additional claims for back pay or wage increases by other store associates who perform, or who have performed, like work in that position. on march 23, 2015, asda asked the employment tribunal to stay all proceedings, contending that the high court, which is the superior first instance civil court in the uk that is headquartered in the royal courts of justice in the city of london, is the more convenient and appropriate forum to hear these claims. on march 23, 2015, asda also asked the employment tribunal to "strike out" substantially all of the claims for failing to comply with employment tribunal rules. following argument and appellate proceedings, the claims have remained in the employment tribunal. the issue of stay, strike out, and the scope of employment tribunal rules are the subject of further appellate proceedings. we discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption "item 3. legal proceedings" and in note 10 in the "notes to our consolidated financial statements," which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. 24 we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. the audit committee of our board of directors, which is composed solely of independent directors, is conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa") and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including wal-mart de m xico, s.a.b. de c.v., or walmex, and whether we appropriately handled prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct. we are also conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for fcpa compliance and strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs. since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the audit committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the fcpa. inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential fcpa violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, brazil, china and india. in november 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec, and we have been informed by the doj and the sec that we are the subject of their respective investigations into possible violations of the fcpa. a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of walmex's current and former officers. we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we cannot predict at this time the outcome or impact of the government investigations, the shareholder lawsuits, or our own internal investigations and review. moreover, we expect to continue to incur costs (incremental to the $126 million of costs incurred in fiscal 2016 and the costs incurred in prior years) in conducting our on-going review and investigations and in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations and in defending the existing and any additional shareholder lawsuits and any governmental proceedings that are instituted against us or any of our current or former officers. these matters may require the involvement of certain members of our senior management that could impinge on the time they have available to devote to other matters relating to our business. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest, including additional news articles from media publications on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences. our process of assessing and responding to the governmental investigations and the shareholder lawsuits continues. while we believe that it is probable that we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations, we cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "market risk" under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors," and that we may discuss in management's discussions and analyses of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q or may otherwise disclose in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements that we make or made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements are made. as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 5 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2017 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere in retail stores or through our e-commerce and mobile capabilities. through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping and saves time for our customers. physical retail encompasses our brick and mortar presence in each market where we operate. digital retail is comprised of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. each week, we serve over 260 million customers who visit our 11,695 stores under 59 banners in 28 countries and e-commerce websites in 11 countries. our strategy is to lead on price, differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience. leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"). edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. price leadership is core to who we are. everyday low cost ("edlc") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers. our digital and physical presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere. we strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience. our operations comprise three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2017 ("fiscal 2017 "), january 31, 2016 ("fiscal 2016 ") and january 31, 2015 ("fiscal 2015 "). during fiscal 2017 , we generated total revenues of $485.9 billion , which was primarily comprised of net sales of $481.3 billion . we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol "wmt." the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1983, we opened our first sam's club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1998, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of january 31, 2017 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 27 countries. in 2000, we began our first digital initiative by creating the walmart.com retail website. since then, our digital presence has continued to grow. as of january 31, 2017 , we operated e-commerce websites in 11 countries, providing access to walmart and our various brands around the world. 6 information about our segments the company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units located throughout the u.s., africa, argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom and retail websites in the u.s. and 10 other countries. the company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. the company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments. it is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services. walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the u.s., washington d.c. and puerto rico, with three primary store formats, as well as digital retail. walmart u.s. generated approximately 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2017 , and of our three segments, walmart u.s. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). in addition, walmart u.s. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. walmart international consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including sam's clubs), cash &amp; carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail. walmart international generated approximately 24% of our fiscal 2017 net sales. the overall gross profit rate for walmart international is lower than that of walmart u.s. primarily because of its merchandise mix. walmart international is our second largest segment and has grown through acquisitions, as well as by adding retail, wholesale and other units. sam's club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 47 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico, as well as digital retail. sam's club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2017 net sales. as a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. sam's club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "walmart," "wal-mart" and "walmart neighborhood market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other digital retail. the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $307.8 billion , $298.4 billion and $288.0 billion for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company consolidated net sales. physical. the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in the u.s., including in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, with supercenters in 49 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, discount stores in 41 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 31 states and puerto rico. the following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of january 31, 2017 : minimum square feet maximum square feet average square feet supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 206,000 104,000 neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 28,000 66,000 42,000 (1) excludes other small formats which include various test formats used to understand market demands and needs. 7 walmart u.s. segment retail unit count and retail square feet (1) supercenters discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened closed conversions (2) total square feet balance forward 3,029 552,237 629 66,402 2013 55 74 3,158 570,409 7 (1 ) (74 ) 561 59,098 2014 72 58 3,288 589,858 4 (57 ) 508 53,496 2015 79 40 3,407 607,415 2 (40 ) 470 49,327 2016 55 (16 ) 19 3,465 616,428 (9 ) (19 ) 442 45,991 2017 38 (2 ) 21 3,522 625,930 (6 ) (21 ) 415 43,347 neighborhood markets and other small formats total segment fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened (3) closed total square feet balance forward 210 8,047 3,868 626,686 2013 79 (3 ) 286 11,226 141 (4 ) 4,005 640,733 2014 122 (1 ) 407 15,778 198 4,203 659,132 2015 235 (3 ) 639 23,370 316 (3 ) 4,516 680,112 2016 161 (133 ) 667 27,228 216 (158 ) 4,574 689,647 2017 73 (5 ) 735 30,012 111 (13 ) 4,672 699,289 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. 8 digital. walmart u.s. provides its customers access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services online through our e-commerce websites, including walmart.com, jet.com, hayneedle.com and shoebuy.com, as well as mobile commerce applications. walmart.com experiences on average 92 million unique visitors a month and offers access to over 38 million skus, including those carried on marketplace, a feature of the website that permits third parties to sell merchandise on walmart.com. walmart.com is also integrated with our physical stores through services like "walmart pickup," "pickup today" and "online grocery." the walmart u.s. segment also offers access to digital content and services including vudu and instawatch. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats, as well as on our e-commerce websites. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural &amp; organics, deli &amp; bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products; general merchandise includes: entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, movies, music, video games and books); hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture); apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and home/seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise). the walmart u.s. segment also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual net sales. national brand merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "adventure force," "autodrive," "blackweb," "equate," "everstart," "faded glory," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "hyper tough," "kid connection," "mainstays," "marketside," "my life as," "no boundaries," "ol' roy," "onn," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "prima della," "pure balance," "sam's choice," "special kitty," "spring valley," "way to celebrate," and "white stag." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "danskin now," "farberware," "op," "russell," "starter" and "swisstech." the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 : fiscal years ended january 31, strategic merchandise units 2017 2016 2015 grocery 56% 56% 56% health and wellness 11% 11% 11% general merchandise 33% 33% 33% total 100% 100% 100% periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. operations. many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets are open 24 hours each day. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. 9 competition. the walmart u.s. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, e-commerce and catalog businesses. we also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; edlc: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; rollbacks: our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; savings catcher, save even more and ad match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price; walmart pickup: customer places order online and picks it up for free from a store. the merchandise is fulfilled through our distribution facilities; pickup today: customer places order online and picks it up at a store within four hours for free. the order is fulfilled through existing store inventory; online grocery: customer places grocery order online and has it delivered to home or picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations; and money back guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. in addition, our retail website and mobile commerce applications are important factors in our competition with other retailers, particularly e-commerce retailers. distribution. for fiscal 2017 , approximately 78% of the walmart u.s. segment's purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our 147 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our retail websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers. the following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and 22 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of january 31, 2017 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total walmart u.s. distribution facilities 103 2 19 23 147 10 walmart international segment the walmart international segment consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of numerous formats, including supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs, including sam's clubs, cash &amp; carry, home improvement, specialty electronics, apparel stores, drug stores and convenience stores, as well as digital retail. the segment's net sales for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , were $116.1 billion , $123.4 billion and $136.2 billion , respectively, which have been impacted by unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. physical. our walmart international segment is comprised of physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; and our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, kenya, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua) and mexico. generally, retail units range in size from 8,900 square feet to 185,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in brazil, mexico and the united kingdom, range in size up to 2,400 square feet. also, on a limited basis, our walmart international segment operates financial institutions that provide consumer credit. walmart international segment unit count (1) and retail square feet (2) africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 347 18,529 88 7,270 512 31,575 333 43,738 622 9,501 316 11,785 2013 377 19,775 94 7,531 558 32,494 379 48,354 642 9,873 329 12,671 2014 379 20,513 104 8,062 556 32,501 389 49,914 661 10,427 380 13,697 2015 396 21,223 105 8,119 557 33,028 394 50,927 690 11,094 404 14,762 2016 408 21,869 108 8,280 499 30,675 400 51,784 709 11,410 395 15,407 2017 412 22,542 107 8,264 498 30,642 410 53,088 731 11,770 363 15,260 china india japan mexico (3) united kingdom total segment fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 370 62,124 15 826 419 24,521 1,724 82,611 541 33,765 5,287 326,245 2013 393 65,801 20 1,083 438 24,448 1,988 88,833 565 34,810 5,783 345,673 2014 405 67,205 20 1,083 438 24,489 2,199 94,900 576 35,416 6,107 358,207 2015 411 68,269 20 1,083 431 24,429 2,290 98,419 592 36,277 6,290 367,630 2016 432 71,724 21 1,146 346 22,551 2,360 100,308 621 37,044 6,299 372,198 2017 439 73,172 20 1,091 341 21,921 2,411 101,681 631 37,338 6,363 376,769 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market. canada unit counts and square footage are stated as of january 31. for the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of the end of fiscal year 2012. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) all periods presented exclude units and square feet for the vips restaurant business. the company completed the sale of the vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015. 11 unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2017 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 326 86 412 argentina 107 107 brazil 413 71 14 498 canada 410 410 central america (4) 731 731 chile 359 4 363 china 424 15 439 india 20 20 japan 341 341 mexico 2,241 160 10 2,411 united kingdom 610 21 631 total 5,962 356 45 6,363 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2016 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31, 2017 . (2) other includes drug stores and convenience stores operating under varying banners. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 11 ), ghana ( 1 ), kenya ( 1 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 5 ), namibia ( 4 ), nigeria ( 5 ), south africa ( 373 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 4 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 234 ), el salvador ( 90 ), guatemala ( 220 ), honduras ( 95 ) and nicaragua ( 92 ). digital. the walmart international segment operates e-commerce websites in 10 countries (argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom). customers have access through our e-commerce websites and, in countries where available, mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country. digital retail supports our physical stores with capabilities like "click &amp; collect" in the united kingdom and our grocery home delivery business in mexico. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged u.s. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items. along with the private brands we market globally, such as "equate," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "mainstays," "ol' roy" and "parent's choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "aurrera," "cambridge," "chosen by you," and "extra special." in addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home improvement, specialty electronic, e-commerce and catalog businesses in each of the markets in which we operate. we also operate, on a limited basis, consumer credit operations. we compete with others for desirable sites. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which walmart international operates. we believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an edlp approach. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. in the markets in which we have retail websites or retail websites and mobile commerce applications, those websites and applications help differentiate us from our competitors and help us compete with other retailers for customers and their purchases, both in our digital and physical retail operations. 12 distribution. we utilize a total of 176 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2017 , approximately 82% of the walmart international segment's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. the following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities, including 15 e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers, as of december 31, 2016, with the exception of distribution facilities in canada, which are stated as of january 31, 2017 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total international distribution facilities 46 11 76 43 176 we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our retail websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated e-commerce fulfillment centers. sam's club segment the sam's club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the u.s. and had net sales of $57.4 billion , $56.8 billion and $58.0 billion for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. membership. the following membership options are available to business owners and individual consumers: membership type business plus savings plus business savings member type business owner individual business owner individual annual membership fee $100 $100 $45 $45 number of add-on memberships ($45 each) up to 16 up to 8 eligible for cash rewards yes yes no no all memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. plus members are eligible for cash rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying sam's club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. the amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash. physical. as a membership-only warehouse club, sam's club facility sizes generally range between 94,000 and 161,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. sam's club segment club count and retail square feet (1) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 611 81,586 2013 9 620 82,653 2014 12 632 84,382 2015 16 (1 ) 647 86,510 2016 8 655 87,552 2017 9 (4 ) 660 88,376 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. digital. sam's club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications. samsclub.com experiences on average 18.6 million unique visitors a month and offers access to approximately 61,000 skus providing the member the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "club pickup." digital retail supports our physical clubs with capabilities like "scan and go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line. 13 merchandise. sam's club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label brands such as "member's mark" in five merchandise categories, listed below. grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. the percentage of net sales for the sam's club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2017 , 2016 and 2015 : fiscal years ended january 31, merchandise category 2017 2016 2015 grocery and consumables 59% 59% 57% fuel and other categories 20% 20% 23% home and apparel 9% 9% 8% technology, office and entertainment 6% 7% 7% health and wellness 6% 5% 5% total 100% 100% 100% operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are generally monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer business members and plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the co-branded sam's club "cash back" mastercard. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam's club segment's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is costco wholesale, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, e-commerce and catalog businesses. sam's club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our savings and business members. our e-commerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete with other membership-only warehouse clubs. distribution. during fiscal 2017 , approximately 68% of the sam's club segment's non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam's club segment's 25 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the u.s., or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities, which service the sam's club segment for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's purchases directly to sam's club locations. the table below provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities, including two e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers and two dedicated import facilities, as of january 31, 2017 . owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total sam's club distribution facilities 3 3 3 16 25 the principal focus of sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. the segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. 14 sam's club ships merchandise purchased by members on its retail website and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its e-commerce dedicated fulfillment centers and other distribution centers. other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2017 ("annual report to shareholders") under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 14 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 14 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. such portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k and incorporated by reference herein as expressly provided herein. intellectual property we regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. we have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of u.s. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks, and copyrights. additionally, we have filed u.s. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. we have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties. suppliers and supply chain as a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the united states, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. in many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers. our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members. employees as of the end of fiscal 2017 , the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.3 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with nearly 1.5 million associates in the u.s. and 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and a large number of associates turn over each year. we believe our relationships with our associates are good. on february 19, 2015, the company announced a significant initiative on pay and training for u.s. associates. approximately 500,000 full-time and part-time associates at walmart u.s. stores and sam's clubs received pay raises in the first half of fiscal 2016, and in february 2016, approximately 1.2 million full-time and part-time associates at walmart u.s. stores and sam's clubs received pay increases. also included in the announcement were comprehensive changes to our hiring, training, compensation and scheduling programs, as well as to our store management structure. these changes give our u.s. associates the opportunity to earn higher pay and advance in their careers. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in our annual report to shareholders in note 12 in the "notes to consolidated financial statements" included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s., the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam's club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases of our stock by associates through our associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s. the company's medical plan in the u.s. has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. similarly, in the operations outside the u.s., the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k with the sec, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. 15 name business experience current position held since age daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, beginning in june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. 2013 45 m. brett biggs executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective january 1, 2016. from january 2014 to december 2015, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart international. from january 2013 to january 2014, he was executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart u.s. and from january 2012 to january 2013, he was senior vice president and chief financial officer of walmart u.s. 2016 48 jacqueline p. canney executive vice president, global people, effective august 3, 2015. from september 2003 to july 2015, she served as the managing director of global human resources at accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services, and outsourcing company. 2015 49 david cheesewright executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international, effective february 1, 2014. from september 2011 to january 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for walmart international's europe, middle east and africa (emea) and canada region. 2014 54 david m. chojnowski senior vice president and controller effective january 1, 2017. from october 2014 to january 2017, he served as vice president and controller, walmart u.s. from january 2013 to october 2014, he served as vice president, finance transformation, of walmart international. from april 2011 to january 2013, he served as vice president, international controller, of walmart international. 2017 47 gregory foran executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. beginning in august 2014. from may 2014 to august 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for the walmart asia region. from march 2012 to may 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart china. from october 2011 to march 2012, he served as senior vice president responsible for various international projects. 2014 55 john furner executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 1, 2017. from october 2015 to january 2017, he served as executive vice president and chief merchandising officer of sam's club. from january 2013 to october 2015, he served as senior vice president and chief merchandising officer of walmart china. from january 2012 to january 2013 he served as senior vice president, home &amp; apparel and global sourcing. 2017 42 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president, global governance and corporate secretary, effective february 1, 2013. from july 2010 to january 2013, he served as executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. 2013 52 marc lore executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, u.s. ecommerce, effective upon the company's acquisition of jet.com, inc., an ecommerce retailer, in september 2016. from april 2014 to september 2016, he served as president and chief executive officer of jet.com, inc. from january 2005 to july 2013, he served as chief executive officer of quidsi, inc., an ecommerce retailer that became a wholly-owned subsidiary of amazon.com, inc. in april 2011. 2016 45 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer, effective february 1, 2014. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 50 16 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally. strategic risks general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes and surcharges or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors in the u.s. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the u.s. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. in addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital retail businesses or through the combination of both retail offerings. price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products. as a result of these factors, we 17 plan to increase investments in e-commerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives, moderate the number of new store openings and rely to a greater extent on comparable store sales and e-commerce for growth. any failure of these investments or initiatives to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or the integration of both), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global retailers and wholesale club operators, as well as other national and international internet-based retailers and retail intermediaries. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as e-commerce and catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, and e-commerce retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, apparel stores, wholesale clubs, cash &amp; carry operations, convenience stores and e-commerce and catalog businesses. we compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased online, through mobile commerce applications or through the integration of our physical and digital retail operations. where necessary, to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. a failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could materially adversely affect our financial performance. see " item 1. business " above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry may undergo consolidation from time to time, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. failure to grow our e-commerce business through the integration of physical and digital retail or otherwise, and the cost of our increasing e-commerce investments, may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance. the retail business is quickly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with all retailers and wholesale clubs occurring online and through mobile commerce applications is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. we plan to increase our investments in e-commerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives, moderate the number of new store openings and rely to a greater extent on increasing comparable store and club sales and e-commerce sales (which are included in our calculation of comparable store and club sales with the exception of e-commerce acquisitions until such businesses have been owned for 12 months) for growth. the success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless shopping experience across the physical and digital retail channels and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this item 1a . our investments in e-commerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our e-commerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings. if we fail to successfully implement our strategy, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, a greater concentration of e-commerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical retail side of our operations. 18 in addition, the cost of certain e-commerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred by acquired e-commerce businesses will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term. operational risks natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our retail websites and mobile commerce applications to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur, such as superstorm sandy in the u.s. in 2012 or the numerous storm systems in the u.s. in recent years, and could adversely affect our financial performance. in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events to the extent they are below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, to the extent they exceed our aggregate limits of applicable coverages. significant losses caused by such events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. we expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the u.s., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. if the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our brand, reputation and financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is 19 outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance. we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary information systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations. if our information systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim. any interruption in both our information systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our e-commerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us over our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, which are a part of our multi-channel sales strategy. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through mobile commerce applications with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our multi-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer "walmart pickup," "pickup today" and "club pickup" and in a growing number of locations, "online grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. multi-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the u.s. and in a number of markets in which our walmart international segment operates. we must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure e-commerce platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and mobile commerce application merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of e-commerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our e-commerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer systems and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired e-commerce businesses, may be subject to cyber-attacks. those attacks could involve attempts to gain access to the website or mobile commerce application to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below. such attacks, if successful, can also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our retail websites or mobile commerce applications and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience on any of our retail website or mobile commerce applications. if we are unable to maintain the security of our retail commerce websites and mobile commerce applications and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business. 20 any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results. as do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our e-commerce websites and mobile commerce applications. we also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions. such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors. in addition, our online operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated. cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single "hackers" or small groups of "hackers." each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. we have in place substantial security measures to protect, and to prevent unauthorized access to, our information systems and the information stored on such systems. we also have security processes, protocols and standards that are applicable to our third-party service providers, including cloud service providers, to protect information from our systems which they have access to or hold under their engagements with us. we constantly monitor developments in cyber threats, evaluate the effectiveness of our information security measures and change such measures or implement new and additional security measures from time to time to address new and different risks to the security of such information and to strengthen our protections for the information stored on our systems. we require our third-party service providers to do the same. nevertheless, as cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors. associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems. moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security. we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, as well as our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity, could result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. as a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as the american national standards institute encryption standards and payment network security operating guidelines and the payment card industry data security standard. even though we comply with these standards and protocols and other information security measures, we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others. in certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial. in addition, the cost of 21 complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. the retail pharmacy operations in our walmart u.s. and sam's club segments generate substantial net sales, a large majority of which are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment established through contractual relationship with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("pbms"). our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by pbms and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burden associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of medicare part d or medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, pbms or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the patient protection and affordable care act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business. if the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals. any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies. one or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations, result in the loss of cross-store or -club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected. the wage increases for over 500,000 associates in our operations in the u.s. and investment in other initiatives for our associates in the u.s. that we announced in february 2015, and related wage increases for 1.2 million associates occurring in february 2016 have increased our wage and other labor expenses significantly. if we cannot offset the increases in our wage and other labor expenses resulting from those wage increases by increasing our gross profit, achieving decreases in our operating, selling, general and administrative expense or a combination of both, our consolidated operating income and our consolidated income from continuing operations could continue to be less than our consolidated operating income and consolidated income from continuing operations for our fiscal years prior to fiscal 2017. in addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase even more significantly for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. 22 impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations, and the performance of strategic alliances to support the expansion of that segment, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes opening new units and growing comparable stores sales in the countries in which we have existing operations. our ability to open new units or to expand or relocate existing units depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets, especially in those markets in which consumers desire to purchase locally produced goods. economic, business and legal environments in foreign markets may also limit our ability to expand our operations and increase our net sales in those markets as we may want and could result in the closure of existing units in such markets which may adversely impact our financial results. if we cannot effectively continue to expand our walmart international segment through opening new units, growing comparable store sales or selective acquisitions, our ability to grow our business could be adversely affected. our walmart international segment may also enter into strategic alliances in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our digital retail operations, physical retail operations or both. for example, in fiscal 2017, we entered into a strategic alliance with jd.com, inc. providing for walmart china to be a preferred retailer on its online-to-offline platform and our sam's club business in china to be a flagship store on its marketplace. any strategic alliance may not generate the level of e-commerce or other sales we anticipate when entering into that alliance or may otherwise adversely impact our business relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance. in addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance, such as our investment in jd.com, inc., could materially adversely affect our financial performance. financial risks fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations. our operations in countries other than the u.s. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the u.s. from local currencies into u.s. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. in recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. as a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our walmart international operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations. we may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. when we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. 23 failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. we believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, e-commerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies. legal, tax, regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks our operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance. in addition to our u.s. operations, we operate our retail business principally through wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom and our majority-owned subsidiaries in africa, central america and mexico. in fiscal 2017, our walmart u.s. and sam's club operating segments generated approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales. the federal government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs. potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements, the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s. and the imposition of a border tax, or a border adjustment tax, on imports into the u.s. a significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our u.s. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries. any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our u.s. operations and our business. during fiscal 2017 , our walmart international operations generated approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales. our operating segments also source goods and services from other countries. our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. the potential imposition by the u.s. of a border tax or border adjustment tax, new or higher tariffs or other restrictions on trade discussed above which impact a country in which we have operations could result in actions by that country to impose new, or increase existing tariffs or taxes on products imported into such country from the u.s. or elsewhere and could damage the reputations of u.s.-based companies, including us, with customers and others in that country. this could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our operations in such country or countries. our business and results of operations in the uk may be negatively affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws resulting from the uk's anticipated exit from the european union. brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. although the company believes it complies with those laws, the company's subsidiaries in brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in brazil. these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the uk bribery act. we maintain policies prohibiting such business practices and have in place enhanced global anti-corruption compliance programs designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our 24 associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. we are also subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. the u.s. congress and the current federal administration have identified federal tax reform as a priority for 2017. federal tax reform plans under consideration may result in significant changes to the u.s. tax code. some of the changes contemplated by the u.s. congress, like the border tax or border adjustment tax, could have the effect of increasing our effective tax rate, the amount of our consolidated net taxable income subject to income taxes, and our overall tax liability, and could reduce our net income and our earnings per share, as well as our consolidated cash flows and liquidity, even if the changes include a reduction in the rate at which corporate taxable income is taxed. in addition, the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. our income taxes could also be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. in particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws. in addition, asda stores, ltd. ("asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has been named as a defendant in nearly 10,000 "equal value" claims pending in the manchester employment tribunal (the "employment tribunal") in the united kingdom. the claimants, who are current and former asda store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified. the claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis. at present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these proceedings. we discuss this case and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption " item 3. legal proceedings " and in note 10 in the "notes to our consolidated financial statements," which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. the audit committee of our board of directors has been conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the fcpa and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including wal-mart de m xico, s.a.b. de c.v. ("walmex"), and whether prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct were appropriately handled by the company. we have also been conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for anti-corruption compliance and are engaged in strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs. since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the audit committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the fcpa. inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential fcpa violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, brazil, china and india. in november 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec. we have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have begun with them regarding the resolution of these matters. as discussions regarding resolution are preliminary, we cannot currently predict the timing, the outcome or the impact of a possible resolution of these matters. a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of walmex's current and former officers. 25 we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. the shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences. moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and in conducting our review and investigations. while we believe it is probable we will incur a loss from these matters, given the on-going nature and complexity of the review, inquiries and investigations we cannot yet reasonably estimate a loss or range of loss that may arise from the conclusion of these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption "market risk" under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in exhibit 13 to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors," and that we may discuss in management's discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in risks that may be discussed under "part ii, item 1a. risk factors" and "part i, item 2. management's discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q or may otherwise be disclosed in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements that we make or are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 6 item 1. business general walmart inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere in retail stores and through ecommerce. through innovation, we are striving to create a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our ecommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. each week, we serve nearly 270 million customers who visit our more than 11,700 stores and numerous ecommerce websites under 65 banners in 28 countries. our strategy is to lead on price, invest to differentiate on access, be competitive on assortment and deliver a great experience. leading on price is designed to earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"). edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. price leadership is core to who we are. everyday low cost ("edlc") is our commitment to control expenses so those cost savings can be passed along to our customers. our omni-channel presence provides customers access to our broad assortment anytime and anywhere. we strive to give our customers and members a great digital and physical shopping experience. our operations comprise three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2018 ("fiscal 2018 "), january 31, 2017 ("fiscal 2017 ") and january 31, 2016 ("fiscal 2016 "). during fiscal 2018 , we generated total revenues of $500.3 billion , which was primarily comprised of net sales of $495.8 billion . we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol "wmt." the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1983, we opened our first sam's club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1998, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of january 31, 2018 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 27 countries. in 2000, we began our first ecommerce initiative by creating walmart.com. that same year, we also created samsclub.com. since then, our digital presence has continued to grow. in 2007, walmart.com launched its site to store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. in 2016, we acquired jet.com in the u.s. and formed a strategic alliance with jd.com in china. subsequent to the jet.com purchase, we have acquired several other u.s. ecommerce entities. in 2017, walmart.com launched free two-day shipping on more than 2 million items and we created store n o 8, a tech incubator with a focus to drive commerce forward. these ecommerce efforts have led to omni-channel offerings in many markets, including over 1,100 "online grocery" pickup locations in the u.s. information about our segments the company is engaged in the operation of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as ecommerce websites, located throughout the u.s., africa, argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. the company's operations are conducted in three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. the company defines its segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the company sells similar individual products and services in each of its segments. it is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services. walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates retail stores in all 50 states in the u.s., washington d.c. and puerto rico, with three primary store formats, as well as ecommerce. walmart u.s. generated approximately 64% of our net sales in fiscal 2018 , and of our three segments, walmart u.s. is the largest and has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). in addition, walmart u.s. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. walmart international consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the u.s. and is divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including sam's clubs) and cash &amp; carry, as well as ecommerce. walmart international generated 7 approximately 24% of our fiscal 2018 net sales. the overall gross profit rate for walmart international is lower than that of walmart u.s. primarily because of its merchandise mix. walmart international is our second largest segment. sam's club consists of membership-only warehouse clubs and operates in 44 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico, as well as ecommerce. sam's club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2018 net sales. as a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. sam's club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "walmart," "wal-mart" and "walmart neighborhood market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other ecommerce brands. the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $318.5 billion , $307.8 billion and $298.4 billion for fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company consolidated net sales. physical. walmart u.s. operates retail stores in the u.s., including in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, with supercenters in 49 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico, discount stores in 41 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 36 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico. the following table provides square footage details on each of our formats as of january 31, 2018 : minimum square feet maximum square feet average square feet supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 206,000 105,000 neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 28,000 65,000 42,000 (1) excludes other small formats. the following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet by format for the fiscal years shown: supercenters discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (1) total (2) square feet (2) opened closed conversions (1) total (2) square feet (2) balance forward 3,158 570,409 561 59,098 2014 72 58 3,288 589,858 4 (57 ) 508 53,496 2015 79 40 3,407 607,415 2 (40 ) 470 49,327 2016 55 (16 ) 19 3,465 616,428 (9 ) (19 ) 442 45,991 2017 38 (2 ) 21 3,522 625,930 (6 ) (21 ) 415 43,347 2018 30 9 3,561 632,479 (6 ) (9 ) 400 41,926 neighborhood markets and other small formats total segment fiscal year opened closed conversions (1) total (2) square feet (2) opened (3) closed total (2) square feet (2) balance forward 286 11,226 4,005 640,733 2014 122 (1 ) 407 15,778 198 4,203 659,132 2015 235 (3 ) 639 23,370 316 (3 ) 4,516 680,112 2016 161 (133 ) 667 27,228 216 (158 ) 4,574 689,647 2017 73 (5 ) 735 30,012 111 (13 ) 4,672 699,289 2018 85 (20 ) 800 30,111 115 (26 ) 4,761 704,516 (1) conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (2) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. digital. walmart u.s. provides its customers access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our physical stores, and services online through our ecommerce family of brands' websites and third party retail partnership channels, as well as through related mobile commerce and voice-activated commerce applications. our ecommerce family of brands includes walmart.com, jet.com, hayneedle.com, shoes.com, moosejaw.com, modcloth.com and bonobos.com. walmart.com offers access to nearly 75 million skus, including those carried on marketplace, a feature of the website that permits third parties to sell merchandise on walmart.com. walmart.com is also integrated with our physical stores through 8 services like "walmart pickup," "pickup today" and in over 1,100 "online grocery" pickup locations to provide an omni-channel offering to our customers. walmart u.s. also offers access to digital content and services including vudu. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats, as well as on our ecommerce websites. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural &amp; organics, deli &amp; bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products; general merchandise includes: entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, wireless, movies, music, video games and books); hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture); apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and home/seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise). walmart u.s. also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual net sales. brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in walmart u.s. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands, including: "adventure force," "autodrive," "blackweb," "equate," "everstart," "faded glory," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "hyper tough," "kid connection," "mainstays," "marketside," "my life as," "no boundaries," "ol' roy," "onn," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "prima della," "pure balance," "sam's choice," "special kitty," "spring valley," "terra &amp; sky," "time and tru," "way to celebrate" and "wonder nation." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "farberware," "russell" and "swisstech." the percentage of strategic merchandise unit net sales for walmart u.s., including online sales, was as follows for fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 : fiscal years ended january 31, strategic merchandise units 2018 2017 2016 grocery 56% 56% 56% health and wellness 11% 11% 11% general merchandise 33% 33% 33% total 100% 100% 100% periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. operations. many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets are open 24 hours each day. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our stores and through our ecommerce websites and mobile commerce applications. seasonal aspects of operations. walmart u.s.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. walmart u.s. competes with both physical retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses. we also compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated retail units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; edlc: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; 9 rollbacks: our commitment to pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; savings catcher, save even more and ad match: strategies to meet or be below a competitor's advertised price; walmart pickup: customer places order online and picks it up for free from a store. the merchandise is fulfilled through our distribution facilities; pickup today: customer places order online and picks it up at a store within four hours for free. the order is fulfilled through existing store inventory; online grocery: customer places grocery order online and has it delivered to home or picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations; and money back guarantee: our commitment to ensure the quality and freshness of the fruits and vegetables in our stores by offering our customers a 100 percent money-back guarantee if they are not satisfied. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. in addition, our ecommerce capabilities, including omni-channel transactions that involve both an ecommerce platform and a physical format, are important factors in our competition with other retailers. distribution. for fiscal 2018 , approximately 78% of walmart u.s.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our 157 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our ecommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 30 dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers. the following table provides further details of our distribution facilities, including return facilities and dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers, as of january 31, 2018 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total walmart u.s. distribution facilities 103 2 23 29 157 walmart international segment the walmart international segment consists of operations in 27 countries outside of the u.s. and includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories, including ecommerce, consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including sam's clubs) and cash &amp; carry. the segment's net sales for fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , were $118.1 billion , $116.1 billion and $123.4 billion , respectively, which have been impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. physical. walmart international includes physical stores operated by: our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom; and our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, kenya, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua) and mexico. generally, retail units range in size from 8,900 square feet to 186,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 185,000 square feet. other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores operating under various banners in brazil, mexico and the united kingdom, range in size up to 2,400 square feet. also, on a limited basis, walmart international operates financial institutions that provide consumer credit. 10 the following table provides the retail unit count (1) and retail square feet (2) for the fiscal years shown: africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 377 19,775 94 7,531 558 32,494 379 48,354 642 9,873 329 12,671 2014 379 20,513 104 8,062 556 32,501 389 49,914 661 10,427 380 13,697 2015 396 21,223 105 8,119 557 33,028 394 50,927 690 11,094 404 14,762 2016 408 21,869 108 8,280 499 30,675 400 51,784 709 11,410 395 15,407 2017 412 22,542 107 8,264 498 30,642 410 53,088 731 11,770 363 15,260 2018 424 23,134 106 8,305 465 29,824 410 53,082 778 12,448 378 15,990 china india japan mexico (3) united kingdom total segment fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 393 65,801 20 1,083 438 24,448 1,988 88,833 565 34,810 5,783 345,673 2014 405 67,205 20 1,083 438 24,489 2,199 94,900 576 35,416 6,107 358,207 2015 411 68,269 20 1,083 431 24,429 2,290 98,419 592 36,277 6,290 367,630 2016 432 71,724 21 1,146 346 22,551 2,360 100,308 621 37,044 6,299 372,198 2017 439 73,172 20 1,091 341 21,921 2,411 101,681 631 37,338 6,363 376,769 2018 443 73,615 20 1,091 336 21,181 2,358 97,024 642 37,587 6,360 373,281 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other, which includes drugstores and convenience stores. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market. canada unit counts and square footage are stated as of january 31. for the balance forward, all country balances are stated as of the end of fiscal year 2013. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) all periods presented exclude units and square feet for the vips restaurant business. the company completed the sale of the vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015. unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2018 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 335 89 424 argentina 106 106 brazil 380 70 15 465 canada 410 410 central america (4) 778 778 chile 373 5 378 china 424 19 443 india 20 20 japan 336 336 mexico 2,186 162 10 2,358 united kingdom 617 25 642 total 5,945 365 50 6,360 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2017 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31, 2018 . (2) other includes drug stores and convenience stores. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 11 ), ghana ( 2 ), kenya ( 1 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 5 ), namibia ( 4 ), nigeria ( 5 ), south africa ( 382 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 6 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 247 ), el salvador ( 95 ), guatemala ( 238 ), honduras ( 103 ) and nicaragua ( 95 ). digital. walmart international operates ecommerce websites in numerous countries. customers have access through our ecommerce websites and, in countries where available, mobile commerce applications to a broad assortment of merchandise and services, both of which vary by country. our omni-channel offerings include capabilities like "click &amp; collect" in the united kingdom and our grocery pick-up and delivery business in several other markets. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for walmart international is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged u.s. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, lower priced items. along with the private brands we market globally, such as "equate," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "mainstays," "ol' roy" and "parent's choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "aurrera," "cambridge," "chosen by you" and "extra special." in addition, we have developed relationships with 11 regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in walmart international vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods. seasonal aspects of operations. walmart international's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. walmart international competes with both physical retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash &amp; carry operations and convenience stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses. we also operate, on a limited basis, consumer credit operations. we compete with others for desirable sites for new or relocated units. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates digital and physical shopping determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the markets in which walmart international operates. we believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an edlp approach. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. in the markets in which we have ecommerce websites or mobile commerce applications, those websites and applications help differentiate us from our competitors and help us compete with other retailers for customers and their purchases, both in our digital and physical retail operations. distribution. we utilize a total of 188 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2018 , approximately 83% of walmart international's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of walmart international's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. the following table provides further details of our international distribution facilities, including 17 dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers, as of december 31, 2017, with the exception of distribution facilities in canada, which are stated as of january 31, 2018 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total international distribution facilities 43 12 87 46 188 we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our ecommerce websites and through our mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers. sam's club segment the sam's club segment operates membership-only warehouse clubs, as well as samsclub.com, in the u.s. and had net sales of $59.2 billion , $57.4 billion and $56.8 billion for fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 , respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. membership. beginning in the year ending january 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019"), sam's club simplified the membership program. the following two options are available to members: membership type plus club annual membership fee $100 $45 number of add-on memberships ($40 each) up to 16 up to 8 eligible for cash rewards yes no eligible for free shipping yes no all memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. plus members are eligible for cash rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying sam's club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. the amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash. plus members are also eligible for free shipping on the vast majority of merchandise available online, with no minimum order size. free shipping is yet another example of creating a new sam's club for our members. 12 physical. as a membership-only warehouse club, sam's club facility sizes generally range between 94,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. the following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet for the fiscal years shown : fiscal year opened closed total (1) square feet (1) balance forward 620 82,653 2014 12 632 84,382 2015 16 (1 ) 647 86,510 2016 8 655 87,552 2017 9 (4 ) 660 88,376 2018 4 (67 ) 597 80,068 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the fiscal years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. digital. sam's club provides its members access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications. samsclub.com experiences on average 20.4 million unique visitors a month and offers access to approximately 59,000 skus providing the member the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "club pickup." digital retail supports our physical clubs with capabilities like "scan and go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line. merchandise. sam's club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories: grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. the member's mark brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value. in fiscal 2018 , member's mark sales exceeded $10 billion, driven by growth in grocery, seasonal items and apparel. the percentage of net sales for sam's club, including ecommerce sales, by merchandise category, was as follows for fiscal 2018 , 2017 and 2016 : fiscal years ended january 31, merchandise category 2018 2017 2016 grocery and consumables 58% 59% 59% fuel and other categories 21% 20% 20% home and apparel 9% 9% 9% technology, office and entertainment 6% 6% 7% health and wellness 6% 6% 5% total 100% 100% 100% operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are generally monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs and online, including the co-branded sam's club "cash back" mastercard. seasonal aspects of operations. sam's club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as digital retailers and catalog businesses. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our plus and club members. our ecommerce website and mobile commerce 13 applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete with other membership-only warehouse clubs. distribution. during fiscal 2018 , approximately 68% of sam's club's non-fuel purchases were shipped from sam's club's 22 dedicated distribution facilities located strategically throughout the u.s., or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities, which service the sam's club segment for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's purchases directly to sam's club locations. the following table provides further details of our dedicated distribution facilities, including two dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers and two dedicated import facilities, as of january 31, 2018 : owned and operated owned and third party operated leased and operated third party owned and operated total sam's club distribution facilities 3 3 3 13 22 the principal focus of sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. the segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. sam's club ships merchandise purchased by members on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers. other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in part ii, item 7 under the caption "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" and in note 15 to our consolidated financial statements. note 15 also includes information regarding total revenues and long-lived assets aggregated by our u.s. and non-u.s. operations. intellectual property we regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. we have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of u.s. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. additionally, we have filed u.s. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. we have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties. suppliers and supply chain as a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the united states, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. in many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers. our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members. employees as of the end of fiscal 2018 , walmart inc. and our subsidiaries employed approximately 2.3 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with 1.5 million associates in the u.s. and 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates. we believe our relationships with our associates are good and are continuing to improve. a large number of associates turn over each year, although walmart u.s. turnover has been improving in fiscal 2018 as a result of our focus on increasing wages and providing improved tools, technology and training to associates. 14 certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s., we offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates. these include a store discount card or sam's club membership, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases of our stock by associates through our associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. in addition to the health-care benefits for eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s., as announced in january 2018, we expanded maternity leave and implemented a new paid parental leave program to all full-time associates. we also introduced a $5,000 benefit to assist eligible associates with adoption. similarly, in the operations outside the u.s., we provide a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 15 executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k with the sec, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, effective june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. 2013 46 m. brett biggs executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective january 1, 2016. from january 2014 to december 2015, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart international. from january 2013 to january 2014, he was executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart u.s. 2016 49 jacqueline p. canney executive vice president, global people, effective august 3, 2015. from september 2003 to july 2015, she served as the managing director of global human resources at accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company. 2015 50 david m. chojnowski senior vice president and controller effective january 1, 2017. from october 2014 to january 2017, he served as vice president and controller, walmart u.s. from january 2013 to october 2014, he served as vice president, finance transformation, of walmart international. 2017 48 gregory foran executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. effective august 2014. from may 2014 to august 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for the walmart asia region. from march 2012 to may 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart china. 2014 56 john furner executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 1, 2017. from october 2015 to january 2017, he served as executive vice president and chief merchandising officer of sam's club. from january 2013 to october 2015, he served as senior vice president and chief merchandising officer of walmart china. 2017 43 marc lore executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, u.s. ecommerce, effective september 2016. from april 2014 to september 2016, he served as president and chief executive officer of jet.com, inc. from january 2005 to july 2013, he served as chief executive officer of quidsi, inc., an ecommerce retailer that became a wholly-owned subsidiary of amazon.com, inc. in april 2011. 2016 46 judith mckenna executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international, effective february 1, 2018. from february 2015 to january 2018, she served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of walmart u.s. prior to that position, she served as executive vice president and chief development officer for walmart u.s. from april 2014 to february 2015; as executive vice president, strategy and development, for walmart international, from april 2013 to april 2014; and as chief operating officer of asda group limited, the company's subsidiary in the united kingdom, from july 2011 to april 2013. 2018 51 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer, effective february 1, 2014. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 51 new executive officer effective april 2, 2018, rachel brand, age 44, will join the company as executive vice president, global governance and corporate secretary. from may 2017 to february 2018, she served as associate attorney general in the united states department of justice. from january 2017 to may 2017, she was an associate professor of law at george mason university antonin scalia law school. prior to that position, she served as a board member on the privacy and civil liberties oversight board of the u.s. government from august 2012 to february 2017. 16 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec's public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally. strategic risks general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors in the u.s. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the u.s. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. in addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators (whether through physical retail, digital retail or the integration of both), which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, store and club sites, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global physical and digital retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries. our walmart u.s. segment competes with both physical retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses. our sam's club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as digital retailers and catalog businesses. 17 our walmart international segment competes with both physical retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash &amp; carry operations and convenience stores, and digital retailers, as well as catalog businesses. we compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through the omni-channel integration of our physical and digital retail operations. a failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance. see " item 1. business " above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments. certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment, whether for customers purchasing products at our stores and clubs, through our digital platforms or through the combination of both. price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products. our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. failure to grow our ecommerce business through the omni-channel integration of physical and digital retail or otherwise, and the cost of our increasing ecommerce investments, may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance. the retail business is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping online and through mobile commerce applications. as a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. our strategy, which includes investments in ecommerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our ecommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings. the success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this item 1a . as a result, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, a greater concentration of ecommerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect the financial performance of the physical retail side of our operations. furthermore, the cost of certain ecommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred by acquired ecommerce businesses will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term. the performance of strategic alliances to support the expansion of our walmart international segment could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our walmart international segment may enter into strategic alliances in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our digital retail operations, physical retail operations or both. any strategic alliance may not generate the level of ecommerce or other sales we anticipate when entering into that alliance or may otherwise adversely impact our 18 business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance. in addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance could materially adversely affect our financial performance. operational risks natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. we bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. we expect all of our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the u.s., currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s.'s foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. if the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience material adverse effects to our brand, reputation and financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance. 19 we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations. given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors. our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations. our information systems are not fully redundant and if our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim. any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken. if we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our ecommerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. many of our customers shop with us using our digital platforms, which are a part of our omni-channel sales strategy. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop online and through digital platforms with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer "walmart pickup," "pickup today" and "club pickup" and, in a growing number of locations, "online grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the u.s. (whether through organic growth or ecommerce acquisitions) and in a number of markets in which our walmart international segment operates. we must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of ecommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our ecommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired ecommerce businesses, may be subject to cyber-attacks. those attacks could involve attempts to gain access to one of our ecommerce websites or mobile commerce applications to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below. such attacks, if successful, can also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience. if we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business. any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results. as do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms. we also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions. such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors. in addition, our ecommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. 20 cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated. cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single "hackers" or small groups of "hackers." each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. as cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors. associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems. moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security. we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our ecommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our ecommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital retail operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. as a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the payment card industry data security standard. we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others. in certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial. in addition, the cost of complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our walmart u.s. and sam's club segments and a large majority of the retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("pbms"). our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by pbms and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes 21 in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of medicare part d or medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, pbms or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the patient protection and affordable care act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business. if the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals. any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies. one or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations, result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected. in addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. financial risks fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations. our operations in countries other than the u.s. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the u.s. from local currencies into u.s. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. in recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable to us coupled with such translations have had a material adverse effect on our reported results of operations. as a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our walmart international operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations. we may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. when we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. we believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, ecommerce growth 22 rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies. additionally, failure of walmart's performance to match that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock. legal, tax, regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks our operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance. in addition to our u.s. operations, we operate our retail business principally through wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom and our majority-owned subsidiaries in africa, central america and mexico. in fiscal 2018, our walmart u.s. and sam's club operating segments generated approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales. the federal government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs. potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s. a significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our u.s. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries. any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our u.s. operations and our business. during fiscal 2018, our walmart international operations generated approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales. walmart international's operations in various countries also sources goods and services from other countries. our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. our business and results of operations in the uk may be negatively affected by fluctuations in currency exchange rates, increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, or changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws resulting from the uk's anticipated exit from the european union. brazilian federal, state and local laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. although the company believes it complies with those laws, the company's subsidiaries in brazil are party to a large number of labor claims and non-income tax assessments, which have arisen during the normal course of business in brazil. these matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and if decided adversely to the company, could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the uk bribery act. we maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. we are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being 23 lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. on december 22, 2017, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the "tax act") was enacted and contains significant changes to u.s. income tax law. effective in 2018, the tax act reduces the u.s. statutory tax rate from 35 percent to 21 percent and creates new taxes focused on foreign-sourced earnings and related-party payments. in addition, the company was subject to a one-time transition tax in fiscal 2018 on accumulated foreign subsidiary earnings not previously subject to u.s. income tax. the securities and exchange commission (sec) staff issued staff accounting bulletin no. 118 ("sab 118") on december 22, 2017, which allows companies to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend beyond one year of the enactment date. due to the timing of the enactment and the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the tax act, the company made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of january 31, 2018, in accordance with sab 118. as the company collects and prepares necessary data, and interprets the tax act and any additional guidance issued by the u.s. treasury department, the irs, and other standard-setting bodies, the company may make adjustments to the provisional amounts during fiscal 2019. those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate in the period in which the adjustments are made and could impact our net income and our earnings per share, as well as our consolidated cash flows and liquidity. we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made. we operate in complex regulated environments in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. our pharmacy operations in the united states are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the health insurance portability and accountability act, the affordable care act or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration (the "fda") and the drug enforcement administration (the "dea"), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services. for example, in the united states the dea and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters, as well as employee benefit, competition, anti-money laundering, antitrust matters and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the united states. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial 24 exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. in particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws. in addition, asda stores, ltd. ("asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has been named as a defendant in over 10,000 "equal value" claims pending in the manchester employment tribunal (the "employment tribunal") in the united kingdom. the claimants, who are current and former asda store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified. the claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis. at present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these proceedings. in december 2017, the united states judicial panel on multidistrict litigation consolidated numerous lawsuits filed against a wide array of defendants by various plaintiffs, including counties, cities, healthcare providers, native american tribes, individuals, and third-party payors, asserting claims generally concerning the impacts of widespread opioid abuse. the consolidated multidistrict litigation is entitled in re national prescription opiate litigation (mdl no. 2804) , and is pending in the u.s. district court for the northern district of ohio. the company is named as a defendant in some of the cases included in this multidistrict litigation, including cases filed by several counties in west virginia; by healthcare providers in mississippi, alabama, texas, and florida; and by the st. croix chippewa indians of wisconsin. similar cases that name the company have been filed in state courts by various counties and municipalities; by health care providers; and by various native american tribes. at present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption " item 3. legal proceedings " and in note 10 in the " notes to our consolidated financial statements ," which are part of this annual report on form 10-k. we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. the audit committee of our board of directors has been conducting an internal investigation into, among other things, alleged violations of the fcpa and other alleged crimes or misconduct in connection with certain of our foreign subsidiaries, including wal-mart de m xico, s.a.b. de c.v. ("walmex"), and whether prior allegations of such violations and/or misconduct were appropriately handled by the company. we have also been conducting a voluntary global review of our policies, practices and internal controls for anti-corruption compliance and are engaged in strengthening our global anti-corruption compliance programs. since the implementation of the global review and enhanced anti-corruption compliance programs, the audit committee and we have identified or been made aware of additional allegations regarding potential violations of the fcpa. inquiries or investigations regarding allegations of potential fcpa violations have been commenced in a number of foreign markets in which we operate, including, but not limited to, brazil, china and india. in november 2011, we voluntarily disclosed our investigative activity to the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec. we have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have been ongoing with them regarding the resolution of these matters. these discussions have progressed to a point that we can now reasonably estimate a probable loss and have recorded an aggregate accrual of $283 million with respect to these matters (the "accrual"). a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico have also initiated investigations of these matters. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation have been filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and officers and certain of walmex's current and former officers. we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of these matters. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. the shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception of our role as a corporate citizen among certain audiences. moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in 25 connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and in conducting our review and investigations. while we have made an accrual for these matters, because the discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of the final resolution of these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters will have a material adverse effect on our business, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates and fluctuations in currency exchange rates. the analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes. the effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. in reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt issuances. we hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps. for fiscal 2018 , the net fair value of our interest rate swaps decreased approximately $87 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for debt obligations, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted. the notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. the weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates at january 31, 2018 . expected maturity date (amounts in millions) fiscal 2019 fiscal 2020 fiscal 2021 fiscal 2022 fiscal 2023 thereafter total liabilities short-term borrowings: variable rate $ 5,257 $ $ $ $ $ $ 5,257 weighted-average interest rate 1.5 % % % % % % 1.5 % long-term debt (1) : fixed rate $ 3,233 $ 1,614 $ 3,336 $ 607 $ 2,934 $ 21,259 $ 32,983 weighted-average interest rate 3.2 % 2.6 % 2.8 % 5.5 % 1.7 % 4.6 % 3.9 % variable rate $ 500 $ 300 $ $ $ $ $ 800 weighted-average interest rate 5.5 % 1.7 % % % % % 4.1 % interest rate derivatives interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ $ 750 $ $ $ 3,250 $ 4,000 weighted-average pay rate % % 3.2 % % % 2.5 % 2.6 % weighted-average receive rate % % 3.3 % % % 2.9 % 3.0 % (1) the long-term debt amounts in the table exclude the company's derivatives classified as fair value hedges. as of january 31, 2018 , our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 26% of our total short-term and long-term debt. based on january 31, 2018 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $96 million . foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the u.s. for fiscal 2018 , movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets of the company's subsidiaries in the united kingdom and canada were the primary cause of the $2.3 billion gain in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss. we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps and designating certain foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as net investment hedges. we hold currency swaps to hedge the currency exchange component of our net investments and also to hedge the currency exchange rate fluctuation exposure associated with the forecasted payments of principal and interest of non-u.s. denominated debt. the aggregate fair value of these swaps was in an asset position of $413 million at january 31, 2018 and a liability position of $147 million at january 31, 2017 . the change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of other currencies relative to the u.s. dollar in fiscal 2018 . a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate at january 31, 2018 would have resulted in a loss or gain in the value of the swaps of $560 million . a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying 49 these swaps from the market rates in effect at january 31, 2018 would have resulted in a loss or gain in the value of the swaps of $22 million . in addition to currency swaps, we have designated foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations. we had outstanding long-term debt of 1.7 billion at january 31, 2018 and 2.5 billion at january 31, 2017 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the united kingdom. at january 31, 2018 , a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $217 million . in addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of 180 billion at january 31, 2018 and 10 billion at january 31, 2017 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in japan. at january 31, 2018 , a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in value of the u.s. dollar relative to the japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $150 million . in certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies. investment risk during fiscal 2018 , the fair value of our available-for-sale investment in jd increased approximately $1.5 billion , due to an increase in the market value of jd. 50risk factors," and that we may discuss in management's discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under "part ii, item 5," and in risks that may be discussed under "part ii, item 1a. risk factors" and "part i, item 2. management's discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q or may otherwise be disclosed in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 6 item 1. business general walmart inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through ecommerce. through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our ecommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. each week, we serve nearly 275 million customers who visit our more than 11,300 stores and numerous ecommerce websites under 58 banners in 27 countries. our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. by leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"). edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. everyday low cost ("edlc") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers. our operations comprise three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019 "), january 31, 2018 ("fiscal 2018 ") and january 31, 2017 ("fiscal 2017 "). during fiscal 2019 , we generated total revenues of $514.4 billion , which was primarily comprised of net sales of $510.3 billion . we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol "wmt." the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1983, we opened our first sam's club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1998, we opened our first walmart neighborhood market. in 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of january 31, 2019 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 26 countries. in 2000, we began our first ecommerce initiative by creating walmart.com. that same year, we also created samsclub.com. since then, our ecommerce presence has continued to grow. in 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its site to store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. in 2016, we acquired jet.com in the u.s. and formed a strategic alliance with jd.com in china. since the jet.com purchase, we have continued to expand our u.s. ecommerce capabilities through acquisitions including shoes.com, moosejaw, bonobos and other digital consumer brands. in 2017, walmart.com launched free two-day shipping on more than 2 million items and we created store n o 8, a technology incubator with a focus to drive commerce forward. in fiscal 2019, we acquired a majority stake of flipkart private limited ("flipkart"), an indian-based ecommerce marketplace , with an ecosystem that includes ecommerce platforms of flipkart, myntra and jabong. in the u.s., we added more grocery pickup and delivery locations and as of january 31, 2019, we offered grocery pickup at more than 2,100 locations and grocery delivery at nearly 800 locations. our ecommerce efforts and innovation have led to omni-channel offerings in many of our markets. we are building an ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, services, ecommerce sites, supply chain and more than 2.2 million associates to better serve our customers. information about our segments we are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as ecommerce, located throughout the u.s., africa, argentina, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom, as well as brazil prior to the sale of the majority stake of walmart brazil discussed in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements. our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. we define our segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. each of our segments contributes to the company's operating results differently. each, however, has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the walmart international segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we sell similar individual products and services in each of our segments. it is impractical to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services. 7 we measure the results of our segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. in fiscal 2019, we revised certain of our corporate overhead allocations to the operating segments and, accordingly, revised prior period amounts for comparability. walmart u.s. segment walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates in the u.s., including in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico. walmart u.s. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "walmart" and "walmart neighborhood market" brands, as well as walmart.com, jet.com and other ecommerce brands. walmart u.s. had net sales of $331.7 billion for fiscal 2019 , representing 65% of our fiscal 2019 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $318.5 billion and $307.8 billion for fiscal 2018 and 2017 , respectively. of our three segments, walmart u.s. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). in addition, walmart u.s. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. omni-channel. walmart u.s. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and ecommerce , through services such as "walmart pickup," "pickup today", "grocery pickup", "grocery delivery," and "endless aisle." as of january 31, 2019, we had over 2,100 grocery pickup locations and nearly 800 grocery delivery locations. our ecommerce websites include walmart.com, jet.com and others. the following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of january 31, 2019 : minimum square feet maximum square feet average square feet supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 206,000 105,000 neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 28,000 65,000 42,000 (1) excludes other small formats. the following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet by format for the fiscal years shown: supercenters discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (1) total (2) square feet (2) opened closed conversions (1) total (2) square feet (2) balance forward 3,288 589,858 508 53,496 2015 79 40 3,407 607,415 2 (40 ) 470 49,327 2016 55 (16 ) 19 3,465 616,428 (9 ) (19 ) 442 45,991 2017 38 (2 ) 21 3,522 625,930 (6 ) (21 ) 415 43,347 2018 30 9 3,561 632,479 (6 ) (9 ) 400 41,926 2019 6 (2 ) 5 3,570 634,198 1 (10 ) (5 ) 386 40,626 neighborhood markets and other small formats total segment fiscal year opened and acquired (3) closed conversions (1) total (2) square feet (2) opened and acquired (3)(4) closed total (2) square feet (2) balance forward 407 15,778 4,203 659,132 2015 235 (3 ) 639 23,370 316 (3 ) 4,516 680,112 2016 161 (133 ) 667 27,228 216 (158 ) 4,574 689,647 2017 73 (5 ) 735 30,012 111 (13 ) 4,672 699,289 2018 85 (20 ) 800 30,111 115 (26 ) 4,761 704,516 2019 24 (11 ) 813 29,895 31 (23 ) 4,769 704,719 (1) conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. (2) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) includes acquired retail locations related to walmart u.s. ecommerce brands (4) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores or neighborhood markets to supercenters. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below: grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural &amp; organics, deli &amp; bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products; 8 general merchandise includes: entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, wireless, movies, music, video games and books); hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture); apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and home/seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise). walmart u.s. also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, wire transfers, money transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual net sales. brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in walmart u.s. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label brands, including brands such as: "athletic works," "bonobos," "equate," "everstart," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "mainstays," "marketside," "modcloth," "no boundaries," "onn," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "time and tru" and "wonder nation." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "farberware," "russell" and "swisstech." periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. operations. many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets are open 24 hours each day. a variety of payment methods are accepted. seasonal aspects of operations. walmart u.s.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. walmart u.s. competes with omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, as well as ecommerce retailers. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; edlc: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; and omni-channel offerings such as walmart pickup, where a customer places an order online and picks it up for free from a store; pickup today, where a customer places an order online and picks it up for free from a store; grocery delivery, where a customer places a grocery order online and has it delivered; or grocery pickup, where a customer places a grocery order online and picks it up at one of our participating stores or remote locations. distribution. for fiscal 2019 , approximately 77% of walmart u.s.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our 156 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our ecommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 33 dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers. walmart international segment walmart international is our second largest segment and operates in 26 countries outside of the u.s. walmart international operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom, as well as brazil prior to the sale of the majority stake of walmart brazil discussed in note 13 to our consolidated financial statements; and our majority-owned subsidiaries in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, kenya, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua), india and mexico. walmart international includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including sam's clubs) and cash &amp; carry, as well as ecommerce through walmart.com.mx, asda.com, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites. 9 walmart international had net sales of $120.8 billion for fiscal 2019 , representing 24% of our fiscal 2019 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $118.1 billion and $116.1 billion for fiscal 2018 and 2017 , respectively. the segment's net sales have been negatively impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations for all years presented. the gross profit rate is lower than that of walmart u.s. primarily because of its merchandise mix. to deliver strong efficient growth, we have to be decisive when it comes to our capital and our time. as such, we have taken certain strategic actions to reposition walmart international, including: acquisition of a majority stake of flipkart in august 2018 for $16 billion, or $13.8 billion net of cash acquired. we began consolidating flipkart's results in the third quarter of fiscal 2019, using a one-month lag . the ongoing operations negatively impacted fiscal 2019 net income and this negative impact will continue in fiscal 2020. proposed combination of j sainsbury plc and asda group limited ("asda"), our wholly-owned united kingdom retail subsidiary. under the terms, we would receive approximately 42 percent of the share capital of the combined company and approximately 3.0 billion in cash, subject to customary closing adjustments, while retaining obligations under the asda defined benefit pension plan . due to a complex regulatory review process, the outcome of which is uncertain and may take some time to complete, the held for sale classification criteria for the disposal group has not been met as of january 31, 2019. further, there can be no assurance as to whether regulatory approval will be obtained or the proposed combination will be consummated. in the future, if the held for sale classification criteria is met for the disposal group, we expect to recognize a loss, the amount of which may fluctuate based on the changes in the value of share capital received and foreign exchange rates. divestiture of 80 percent of walmart brazil to advent international ( advent ) in august 2018. advent agreed to contribute additional capital to the business over a three-year period and we agreed to indemnify advent for certain pre-closing tax and legal contingencies and other matters. we recorded a pre-tax net loss of $4.8 billion in fiscal 2019 for the sale, of which $2.0 billion related to cumulative foreign currency translation loss which was reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive loss. consistent with our focus on core retail capabilities, the divestiture of the walmart chile banking operations in december 2018 and the proposed divestiture of the walmart canada banking operations , classified as held for sale as of january 31, 2019 . omni-channel. walmart international provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and ecommerce , such as through services like "click &amp; collect" in the united kingdom, our grocery pick-up and delivery business in several other markets, and our marketplaces, such as flipkart in india. generally, retail units range in size from 1,500 square feet to 186,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 25,000 square feet to 155,000 square feet. other includes stand-alone gas stations operating in the united kingdom, which range in size up to 2,200 square feet. the following tables provide the unit count (1) and square feet (2) for the fiscal years shown: africa argentina brazil (3) canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 379 20,513 104 8,062 556 32,501 389 49,914 661 10,427 380 13,697 2015 396 21,223 105 8,119 557 33,028 394 50,927 690 11,094 404 14,762 2016 408 21,869 108 8,280 499 30,675 400 51,784 709 11,410 395 15,407 2017 412 22,542 107 8,264 498 30,642 410 53,088 731 11,770 363 15,260 2018 424 23,134 106 8,305 465 29,824 410 53,082 778 12,448 378 15,990 2019 436 24,317 92 8,095 411 53,167 811 12,978 371 16,411 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are as of december 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market. canada unit counts and square footage are as of january 31. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (3) the company sold the majority stake of walmart brazil in fiscal 2019. 10 china india japan mexico (4) united kingdom total segment fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 405 67,205 20 1,083 438 24,489 2,199 94,900 576 35,416 6,107 358,207 2015 411 68,269 20 1,083 431 24,429 2,290 98,419 592 36,277 6,290 367,630 2016 432 71,724 21 1,146 346 22,551 2,360 100,308 621 37,044 6,299 372,198 2017 439 73,172 20 1,091 341 21,921 2,411 101,681 631 37,338 6,363 376,769 2018 443 73,615 20 1,091 336 21,181 2,358 97,024 642 37,587 6,360 373,281 2019 443 71,543 22 1,204 332 20,290 2,442 98,623 633 37,582 5,993 344,210 (1) "unit count" includes retail stores, wholesale clubs and other. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are as of december 31, to correspond with the fiscal year end of the related geographic market. canada unit counts and square footage are as of january 31. (2) "square feet" columns are reported in thousands. (4) all periods presented exclude units and square feet for the vips restaurant business. the company completed the sale of the vips restaurant business in fiscal 2015. unit counts (1) as of january 31, 2019 for walmart international are summarized by major category for each geographic market as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other (2) total africa (3) 346 90 436 argentina 92 92 canada 411 411 central america (4) 811 811 chile 363 8 371 china 420 23 443 india 22 22 japan 332 332 mexico 2,279 163 2,442 united kingdom 615 18 633 total 5,669 306 18 5,993 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are as of december 31, 2018 , to correspond with the balance sheet date of the related geographic market. canada unit counts are as of january 31, 2019 . (2) other includes stand-alone gas stations. (3) africa unit counts by country are botswana ( 11 ), ghana ( 4 ), kenya ( 2 ), lesotho ( 3 ), malawi ( 2 ), mozambique ( 6 ), namibia ( 4 ), nigeria ( 5 ), south africa ( 389 ), swaziland ( 1 ), tanzania ( 1 ), uganda ( 1 ) and zambia ( 7 ). (4) central america unit counts by country are costa rica ( 256 ), el salvador ( 97 ), guatemala ( 250 ), honduras ( 105 ) and nicaragua ( 103 ). merchandise. the merchandising strategy for walmart international is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged u.s. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. along with the private brands we market globally, such as "equate," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "mainstays," "marketside," and "parent's choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "aurrera," "cambridge," "lider," "myntra," "jabong," "phonepe," and "extra special." in addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in walmart international vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods. seasonal aspects of operations. walmart international's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. walmart international competes with omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash &amp; carry operations and convenience stores, and ecommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an edlp approach. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. 11 distribution. we utilize a total of 226 distribution facilities located in argentina, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa, india and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2019 , approximately 83% of walmart international's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of walmart international's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our ecommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 90 dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers, as well as more than 1,900 ecommerce sort centers in india. sam's club segment sam's club operates in 44 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico. sam's club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com. sam's club had net sales of $57.8 billion for fiscal 2019 , representing 11% of our consolidated fiscal 2019 net sales, and had net sales of $59.2 billion and $57.4 billion for fiscal 2018 and 2017 , respectively. as a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. sam's club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. membership. the following two options are available to members: plus membership club membership annual membership fee $100 $45 number of add-on memberships ($40 each) up to 16 up to 8 eligible for cash rewards yes no all memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. plus members are eligible for cash rewards, which is a benefit that provides $10 for every $500 in qualifying sam's club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. the amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash. plus members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions, glasses and contacts. omni-channel. while sam's club is a membership-only warehouse club, it provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and ecommerce . the warehouse facility sizes generally range between 34,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. the following table provides the retail unit count and retail square feet for the fiscal years shown : fiscal year opened closed total (1) square feet (1) balance forward 632 84,382 2015 16 (1 ) 647 86,510 2016 8 655 87,552 2017 9 (4 ) 660 88,376 2018 4 (67 ) 597 80,068 2019 2 599 80,240 (1) "total" and "square feet" columns are as of january 31 for the fiscal years shown. "square feet" column is reported in thousands. members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications, providing the option of delivery direct-to-home or to the club through services such as "club pickup." sam's club omni-channel capabilities also include "scan and go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line. merchandise. sam's club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories: grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. the member's mark brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value. in fiscal 2019 , member's mark sales exceeded $12 billion, driven by growth across multiple categories in the private brand portfolio. operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are generally monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted. 12 seasonal aspects of operations. sam's club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and ecommerce retailers and catalog businesses. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our plus and club members. our ecommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete. distribution. during fiscal 2019 , approximately 70% of sam's club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from sam's club's 23 dedicated distribution facilities, located strategically throughout the u.s., or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities, which service the sam's club segment for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's club purchases directly to sam's club locations. sam's club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods from its six dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers and other distribution centers, including two dedicated import facilities. the principal focus of sam's club's distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise while minimizing stored inventory. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, and sometimes less than an hour. sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. the segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. intellectual property we regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. we have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of u.s. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. additionally, we have filed u.s. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. we have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties. suppliers and supply chain as a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the united states, from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. in many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. our purchases may represent a significant percentage of a number of our suppliers' annual sales, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers. our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members. employees as of the end of fiscal 2019 , walmart inc. and our subsidiaries employed more than 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with 1.5 million associates in the u.s. and 0.7 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates. we believe our relationships with our associates are good. a large number of associates turn over each year, although walmart u.s. turnover has improved in both fiscal 2019 and 2018 as a result of our focus on increasing wages and providing improved tools, technology and training to associates. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s. we offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates. these include a store discount card or sam's club membership, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of associate purchases of our stock through our associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. in addition to the health-care benefits for eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s., we offer maternity leave and a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates. we also offer a $5,000 benefit to assist eligible associates with adoption. additionally, we offer eligible associates tuition assistance towards earning a college degree. similarly, in the 13 operations outside the u.s., we provide a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. executive officers of the registrant the following chart names the executive officers of the company as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k with the sec, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, effective june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. 2013 47 m. brett biggs executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective january 2016. from january 2014 to december 2015, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart international. 2016 50 rachel brand executive vice president, global governance, chief legal officer and corporate secretary, effective april 2018. from may 2017 to february 2018, she served as associate attorney general in the united states department of justice. from january 2017 to may 2017, she was an associate professor of law at george mason university antonin scalia law school. from august 2012 to february 2017, she served as a board member on the privacy and civil liberties oversight board of the u.s. government. 2018 45 jacqueline p. canney executive vice president, global people, effective august 2015. from september 2003 to july 2015, she served as the managing director of global human resources at accenture plc., a global management consulting, technology services and outsourcing company. 2015 51 david m. chojnowski senior vice president and controller effective january 2017. from october 2014 to january 2017, he served as vice president and controller, walmart u.s. from january 2013 to october 2014, he served as vice president, finance transformation, of walmart international. 2017 49 gregory foran executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. effective august 2014. from may 2014 to august 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer for the walmart asia region. from march 2012 to may 2014, he served as president and chief executive officer of walmart china. 2014 57 john furner executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club, effective february 2017. from october 2015 to january 2017, he served as executive vice president and chief merchandising officer of sam's club. from january 2013 to october 2015, he served as senior vice president and chief merchandising officer of walmart china. 2017 44 marc lore executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, u.s. ecommerce, effective september 2016. from april 2014 to september 2016, he served as president and chief executive officer of jet.com, inc. 2016 47 judith mckenna executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international, effective february 2018. from february 2015 to january 2018, she served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of walmart u.s. from april 2014 to february 2015, she served as executive vice president and chief development officer for walmart u.s. from april 2013 to april 2014, she served as executive vice president, strategy and development, for walmart international. 2018 52 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer, effective february 2014. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 52 14 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally. strategic risks general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the u.s. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the u.s. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets. in addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global ecommerce and omni-channel retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries. we compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations. 15 a failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance. see " item 1. business " above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments. certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. other segments are substantially reducing operations which could also result in competition rushing to fill the void created by such corporate actions. such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, or reduction in operation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment. price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products. our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our increasing ecommerce investments may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance. the retail business is rapidly evolving and consumers are increasingly embracing shopping digitally. as a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. our strategy, which includes acquisitions, joint ventures, investments in ecommerce, technology, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our ecommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings. the success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to build and deliver a seamless omni-channel shopping experience and is further subject to the risks we face as outlined in this item 1a . as a result, our market position, net sales and financial performance could be adversely affected, which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets. in addition, a greater concentration of ecommerce sales could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance. furthermore, the cost of certain ecommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term. the performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance. we may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our retail operations. these arrangements may not generate the level of sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance. in addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance or business relationship could materially adversely affect our financial performance. operational risks natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as war, civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a 16 country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. we bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. we expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability in the countries in which our foreign suppliers and their manufacturers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet certain of our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s. foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. if the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance. we may also face reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and may also expose us to product liability or food safety claims. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance. in addition, third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions. the applicability to us of laws related to such sales is currently unsettled and we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are counterfeit or otherwise fraudulent. we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations. given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors. our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations. our information systems are not fully 17 redundant and if our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim. any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken. if we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our ecommerce business globally, could be materially adversely affected. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we use social media and electronic mail to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer "walmart pickup," "pickup today," "club pickup" and "online grocery" programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer at a local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations in the u.s. (whether through organic growth or ecommerce acquisitions) and in a number of markets in which our walmart international segment operates. we must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of ecommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our ecommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the computer and operating systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired ecommerce businesses, are regularly subject to cyber-attacks. those attacks involve attempts to gain access to our ecommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and make unauthorized use of customers' or members' payment information and related risks discussed below. such attacks, if successful, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms and otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience. if we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in traffic, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers whose personal information is unlawfully obtained and used, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business. any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results. as do most retailers, we receive and store in our digital information systems certain personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms. we also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for encryption and authentication technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions. such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors. in addition, our ecommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated. cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of single "hackers" or small groups of "hackers." each year, cyber-attackers make numerous attempts to access the information stored in our information systems. as cyber threats evolve, change and become more difficult to detect and successfully defend against, one or more cyber-attacks might defeat our or a third-party service provider's security measures in the future and obtain the personal information of customers, members, associates and vendors. 18 associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems. moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security. we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach occurs. any breach of our security measures or any breach, error or malfeasance of those of our third-party service providers and loss of our confidential information, or any failure by us to comply with applicable privacy and information security laws and regulations, could cause us to incur significant costs to protect any customers, members, associates and vendors whose personal data was compromised and to restore their confidence in us and to make changes to our information systems and administrative processes to address security issues and compliance with applicable laws and regulations. in addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our ecommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our ecommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security breach could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the security breach and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. as a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the payment card industry data security standard. we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect any cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, or security breaches from known cyber-attacks or malware that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage or misappropriation of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others. in certain circumstances, payment card association rules and obligations to which we are subject under our contracts with payment card processors make us liable to payment card issuers if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we hold is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial. in addition, the cost of complying with stricter and more complex data privacy, data collection and information security laws and standards could be significant to us. changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our walmart u.s. and sam's club segments. a large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("pbms"). our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by pbms and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of medicare part d or medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation among third party payers, pbms or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of 19 the patient protection and affordable care act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business. if the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals. any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies. one or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected. in addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. financial risks fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations. our operations in countries other than the u.s. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the u.s. from local currencies into u.s. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. in recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations. as a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our walmart international operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations. we may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. when we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. consequently, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may adversely affect our results of operations. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. we believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, ecommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies. additionally, failure of walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock. 20 legal, tax, regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance. in addition to our u.s. operations, we operate our retail business in africa, argentina, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. during fiscal 2019, our walmart international operations generated approximately 24% of our consolidated net sales. walmart international's operations in various countries also sources goods and services from other countries. our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions on ecommerce offerings in international markets, such as india), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures), local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. our business and results of operations in the uk may be negatively affected by increases in food costs, changes in trade policies, changes in labor, immigration, tax or other laws and fluctuations in currency exchange rates resulting from the uk's pending exit from the european union. we expect continued uncertainty around the extent of the impact of this exit on our business until the uk and the european union put in alternative trade and other arrangements. the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the u.s. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the uk bribery act. we maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance. in fiscal 2019, our walmart u.s. and sam's club operating segments generated approximately 76% of our consolidated net sales. the federal government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs. potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s. a significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our u.s. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries. any such actions could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our u.s. operations and our business. we are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles. 21 for example, the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the "tax act") significantly changed income tax laws that affect u.s. corporations and there are aspects of the tax act that remain unclear as additional guidance from the u.s. tax authority is pending. as further guidance is issued by the u.s. treasury department, the irs, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. in addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made. changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws and regulations specific to the environments in which we operate could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance. we operate in complex regulated environments in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. our pharmacy operations in the united states are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the health insurance portability and accountability act, the affordable care act, laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration (the "fda") and the drug enforcement administration (the "dea"), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services. for example, in the united states the dea and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances. the dea, the fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations related to competition, and antitrust matters, and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the united states. in addition, certain financial services we offer or make available, such as our money transfer agent services, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, fraud and other illicit activity. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties. in addition, failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. in particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws. 22 in addition, asda stores, ltd. ("asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has been named as a defendant in numerous "equal value" claims pending in the manchester employment tribunal (the "employment tribunal") in the united kingdom. the claimants, who are current and former asda store employees, allege that the work performed by female employees in asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of male employees working in asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the disparity in pay between these different job positions is not objectively justified. the claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis. at present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters . in december 2017, the united states judicial panel on multidistrict litigation consolidated numerous lawsuits filed against a wide array of defendants by various plaintiffs, including counties, cities, healthcare providers, native american tribes, individuals, and third-party payors, asserting claims generally concerning the impacts of widespread opioid abuse. the consolidated multidistrict litigation is entitled in re national prescription opiate litigation (mdl no. 2804) , and is pending in the u.s. district court for the northern district of ohio. the company is named as a defendant in some of the cases included in this multidistrict litigation. similar cases that name the company have also been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, health care providers and other plaintiffs. plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement. the company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption " item 3. legal proceedings " and in note 10 in the " notes to our consolidated financial statements ," which are part of this annual report on form 10-k. we could be subject to liability, penalties and other sanctions and other adverse consequences arising out of our on-going fcpa matter. as previously disclosed, we are under investigation by the u.s. department of justice (the "doj") and the sec regarding possible violations of the fcpa. we have been cooperating with those agencies and discussions have been ongoing with them regarding the resolution of these matters. these discussions have progressed to a point that in fiscal 2018, we reasonably estimated a probable loss and recorded an aggregate accrual of $283 million with respect to these matters (the "accrual"). a number of federal and local government agencies in mexico also investigated these matters. walmex cooperated with the mexican governmental agencies that conducted these investigations. furthermore, lawsuits relating to the matters under investigation were filed by several of our shareholders against us, certain of our current and former directors and former officers and certain of walmex's former officers. these matters have been resolved or immaterial accruals have been made for proposed settlements. we could be exposed to a variety of negative consequences as a result of the matters noted above. one or more enforcement actions could be instituted in respect of the matters that are the subject of some or all of the on-going government investigations, and such actions, if brought, may result in judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions, cease and desist orders, debarment or other relief, criminal convictions and/or penalties. shareholder lawsuits may result in judgments against us and our current and former directors and officers named in those proceedings. we also expect that there will be ongoing media and governmental interest regarding these matters, including additional news articles on these matters that could impact the perception among certain audiences of our role as a corporate citizen. moreover, we have incurred and expect to continue to incur costs in responding to requests for information or subpoenas seeking documents, testimony and other information in connection with the government investigations, in defending the shareholder lawsuits and with respect to investigations. while we have made an accrual for these matters, because the discussions are continuing, there can be no assurance as to the timing or the terms of the final resolution of these matters. although we do not presently believe that these matters, including the accrual (and the payment of the accrual at some point-in-time in the future) will have a material adverse effect on our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows, given the inherent uncertainties in such situations, we can provide no assurance that these matters will not be material to our business, financial position, results of operations or cash flows in the future. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of our equity investment in jd.com. the analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes. the effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. in reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt. we hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps. for fiscal 2019 , the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $13 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted. the notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. the weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of january 31, 2019 . expected maturity date (amounts in millions) fiscal 2020 fiscal 2021 fiscal 2022 fiscal 2023 fiscal 2024 thereafter total liabilities short-term borrowings: variable rate $ 5,225 $ $ $ $ $ $ 5,225 weighted-average interest rate 2.7 % % % % % % 2.7 % long-term debt (1) : fixed rate $ 1,576 $ 4,597 $ 2,330 $ 2,844 $ 4,595 $ 27,654 $ 43,596 weighted-average interest rate 2.5 % 2.9 % 3.7 % 1.7 % 3.2 % 4.5 % 3.9 % variable rate $ 300 $ 750 $ 750 $ $ $ $ 1,800 weighted-average interest rate 2.8 % 2.9 % 3.1 % % % % 2.9 % interest rate derivatives interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ $ 750 $ $ $ 1,750 $ 1,500 $ 4,000 weighted-average pay rate % 4.1 % % % 3.2 % 3.8 % 3.6 % weighted-average receive rate % 3.3 % % % 2.6 % 3.3 % 3.0 % (1) the long-term debt amounts in the table exclude the company's derivatives classified as fair value hedges. as of january 31, 2019 , our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 22% of our total short-term and long-term debt. based on january 31, 2019 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $110 million . foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the u.s, as well our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt. for fiscal 2019 , movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets of the company's subsidiaries in the uk, chile, and canada were the primary cause of the $2.1 billion loss in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss. we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps. the aggregate fair value of these swaps was in an asset position of $62 million and $413 million as of january 31, 2019 and january 31, 2018 , respectively. the change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in fiscal 2019 . a hypothetical 10% change in the currency exchange rates underlying these swaps from the market rate as of january 31, 2019 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $515 million . a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of january 31, 2019 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $13 million . 43 in addition to currency swaps, we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by designating foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations. we had outstanding long-term debt of 1.7 billion as of january 31, 2019 and january 31, 2018 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the united kingdom. as of january 31, 2019 , a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $201 million . in addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of 180 billion as of january 31, 2019 and january 31, 2018 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in japan. as of january 31, 2019 , a hypothetical 10% change in value of the u.s. dollar relative to the japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $150 million . in certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies. investment risk we are exposed to changes in the jd.com ("jd") stock price as a result of our equity investment in jd. since february 1, 2018, when we adopted the new financial instrument accounting standard, the change in fair value recorded within other gains and losses resulted in a loss of $3.5 billion due to a decrease in the stock price of jd. as of january 31, 2019 , the fair value of our equity investment in jd was $3.6 billion . 44risk factors ," and that we may discuss in management's discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of operations under "part ii, item 5," and in risks that may be discussed under "part ii, item 1a. risk factors" and "part i, item 2. management's discussions and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q or may otherwise be disclosed in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating our forward-looking statements. the forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on our knowledge of our business and our operating environment and assumptions that we believe to be or will believe to be reasonable when such forward-looking statements were or are made. as a consequence of the factors described above, the other risks, uncertainties and factors we disclose below and in the other reports as mentioned above, other risks not known to us at this time, changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, our actual results may differ materially from those discussed in or implied or contemplated by our forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure you that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the manner or to the extent we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to revise or update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 6 item 1. business general walmart inc. ("walmart," the "company" or "we") helps people around the world save money and live better anytime and anywhere by providing the opportunity to shop in retail stores and through ecommerce. through innovation, we strive to continuously improve a customer-centric experience that seamlessly integrates our ecommerce and retail stores in an omni-channel offering that saves time for our customers. each week, we serve over 265 million customers who visit approximately 11,500 stores and numerous ecommerce websites under 56 banners in 27 countries. our strategy is to make every day easier for busy families, operate with discipline, sharpen our culture and become digital, and make trust a competitive advantage. making life easier for busy families includes our commitment to price leadership, which has been and will remain a cornerstone of our business, as well as increasing convenience to save our customers time. by leading on price, we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ("edlp"). edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. everyday low cost ("edlc") is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers. our operations comprise three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our united states ("u.s.") and canadian operations. we consolidate all other operations generally using a one-month lag and on a calendar year basis. our discussion is as of and for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2020 ("fiscal 2020 "), january 31, 2019 ("fiscal 2019 ") and january 31, 2018 ("fiscal 2018 "). during fiscal 2020 , we generated total revenues of $524.0 billion , which primarily comprised net sales of $519.9 billion . we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. our common stock trades on the new york stock exchange under the symbol "wmt." the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders' business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1983, we opened our first sam's club, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1998, we opened our first walmart neighborhood market. in 1991, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico. since then, our international presence has expanded and, as of january 31, 2020 , our walmart international segment conducted business in 26 countries. in 2000, we began our first ecommerce initiative by creating walmart.com and then later that year, adding samsclub.com. since then, our ecommerce presence has continued to grow. in 2007, leveraging our physical stores, walmart.com launched its site to store service, enabling customers to make a purchase online and pick up merchandise in stores. since 2016, we have made several ecommerce acquisitions which have enabled us to leverage technology, talent and expertise, as well as incubate digitally-native brands and expand our assortment on walmart.com and in stores. in fiscal 2017, walmart.com launched free two-day shipping and we created store n o 8, a technology incubator with a focus to drive ecommerce innovation. then in fiscal 2019, we continued to enhance our ecommerce initiatives with the acquisition of a majority stake of flipkart private limited ("flipkart"), an indian-based ecommerce marketplace , with an ecosystem that includes ecommerce platforms of flipkart and myntra as well as phonepe, a digital transaction platform. in fiscal 2020, we launched nextday delivery to more than 75 percent of the u.s. population, launched delivery unlimited from 1,600 locations in the u.s. and expanded same day pickup to nearly 3,200 locations. our ecommerce efforts and innovation have also led to omni-channel offerings in many of our markets including grocery pick up and/or delivery in nearly a dozen countries outside the u.s. to date, we now have more than 6,100 grocery pick up and delivery locations globally. we are enhancing our ecosystem with our omni-channel capabilities, stores, services, ecommerce sites, supply chain combined with our more than 2.2 million associates to better serve our customers. together, we believe these elements produce a flywheel effect which creates customer relationships where customers view walmart as their primary destination. 7 information about our segments we are engaged in global operations of retail, wholesale and other units, as well as ecommerce, located throughout the u.s., africa, argentina, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. our operations are conducted in three reportable segments: walmart u.s., walmart international and sam's club. we define our segments as those operations whose results the chief operating decision maker ("codm") regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. each of our segments contributes to the company's operating results differently. each, however, has generally maintained a consistent contribution rate to the company's net sales and operating income in recent years other than minor changes to the contribution rate for the walmart international segment due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates. we sell similar individual products and services in each of our segments. it is impracticable to segregate and identify revenues for each of these individual products and services. we measure the results of our segments using, among other measures, each segment's net sales and operating income, which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment's operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as determined by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when the measurement of a segment changes, previous period amounts and balances are reclassified to be comparable to the current period's presentation. walmart u.s. segment walmart u.s. is our largest segment and operates in the u.s., including in all 50 states, washington d.c. and puerto rico. walmart u.s. is a mass merchandiser of consumer products, operating under the "walmart" and "walmart neighborhood market" brands, as well as walmart.com and other ecommerce brands. walmart u.s. had net sales of $341.0 billion for fiscal 2020 , representing 66% of our fiscal 2020 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $331.7 billion and $318.5 billion for fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. of our three segments, walmart u.s. has historically had the highest gross profit as a percentage of net sales ("gross profit rate"). in addition, walmart u.s. has historically contributed the greatest amount to the company's net sales and operating income. omni-channel. walmart u.s. provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and ecommerce , through services such as "same day pickup," "same day delivery," "delivery unlimited," "nextday delivery," and "endless aisle." as of january 31, 2020 , we had nearly 3,200 grocery pickup locations and over 1,600 delivery locations. we have several ecommerce websites, the largest of which is walmart.com. we define ecommerce sales as sales initiated online through our websites or through a mobile app. ecommerce sales may be fulfilled by a number of methods including our dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers or our stores. the following table provides the approximate size of our retail stores as of january 31, 2020 : minimum square feet maximum square feet average square feet supercenters (general merchandise and grocery) 69,000 260,000 178,000 discount stores (general merchandise and limited grocery) 30,000 206,000 105,000 neighborhood markets (1) (grocery) 28,000 65,000 42,000 (1) excludes other small formats. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in three strategic merchandise units, listed below: grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, natural &amp; organics, deli &amp; bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical services, clinical services, and over-the-counter drugs and other medical products; general merchandise includes: entertainment (e.g., electronics, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, wireless, movies, music, video games and books); hardlines (e.g., stationery, automotive, hardware and paint, sporting goods, outdoor living and horticulture); apparel (e.g., apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, as well as shoes, jewelry and accessories); and home/seasonal (e.g., home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home decor, toys, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise). walmart u.s. recently launched walmart media group, an in-house advertising offering, to work with brands to influence shoppers. walmart u.s. also offers fuel and financial services and related products, including money orders, prepaid cards, money (wire) transfers, check cashing and bill payment. combined, these offerings total less than 1% of annual net sales. 8 brand name merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in walmart u.s. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label brands, including brands such as: "allswell," "athletic works," "bonobos," "equate," "ev1," "everstart," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "mainstays," "marketside," "no boundaries," "onn," "ozark trail," "parent's choice," "scoop," "swisstech," "time and tru" and "wonder nation." the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: "better homes &amp; gardens," "farberware" and "russell." periodically, revisions are made to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, the previous periods' presentation is adjusted to maintain comparability. operations. many supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets are open 24 hours each day. a variety of payment methods are accepted. consistent with its strategy, walmart u.s. continues to develop technology tools that help better serve customers and be more efficient in stores, such as shelf-scanning robots, autonomous floor scrubbers, and automated unloading conveyor systems. seasonal aspects of operations. walmart u.s.'s business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income have occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. walmart u.s. competes with omni-channel retailers operating discount, department, retail and wholesale grocers, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, as well as ecommerce retailers. our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp: our pricing philosophy under which we price items at everyday low prices so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; edlc: everyday low cost is our commitment to control expenses so our cost savings can be passed along to our customers; and omni-channel offerings such as same day pickup and same day delivery, where a customer places an order online and picks it up for free from a store or has it delivered; delivery unlimited, where a customer can receive unlimited grocery delivery for an annual fee; as well as free two-day shipping without an annual membership fee and free nextday delivery on an assortment of best-selling items. distribution. for fiscal 2020 , approximately 79% of walmart u.s.'s purchases of store merchandise were shipped through our 162 distribution facilities, which are located strategically throughout the u.s. the remaining store merchandise we purchased was shipped directly from suppliers. general merchandise and dry grocery merchandise is transported primarily through the segment's private truck fleet; however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable grocery merchandise. we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our ecommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 40 dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers which includes eight temporary fulfillment centers. walmart international segment walmart international is our second largest segment and operates in 26 countries outside of the u.s. walmart international operates through our wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, canada, chile, china, india, japan and the united kingdom, and our majority-owned subsidiaries in africa (which includes botswana, ghana, kenya, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia), central america (which includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua), india and mexico. walmart international previously operated in brazil prior to the sale of the majority stake of walmart brazil in fiscal 2019, as discussed in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements. walmart international includes numerous formats divided into three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. these categories consist of many formats, including: supercenters, supermarkets, hypermarkets, warehouse clubs (including sam's clubs) and cash &amp; carry, as well as ecommerce through walmart.com.mx, asda.com, walmart.ca, flipkart.com and other sites. walmart international had net sales of $120.1 billion for fiscal 2020 , representing 23% of our fiscal 2020 consolidated net sales, and had net sales of $ 120.8 billion and $118.1 billion for fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. the segment's net sales were negatively impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations for all years presented. the gross profit rate is lower than that of walmart u.s. primarily because of its merchandise mix. 9 walmart international's strategy is to create strong local businesses powered by walmart which means being locally relevant and customer-focused in each of the markets it operates. we are being deliberate about where and how we choose to operate and continue to re-shape the portfolio to best enable long-term, sustainable and profitable growth. as such, we have taken certain strategic actions to strengthen our walmart international portfolio for the long-term, including: acquisition of a majority stake of flipkart in august 2018. divestiture of 80 percent of walmart brazil to advent international ( advent ) in august 2018. divestiture of the walmart chile banking operations in december 2018 and the divestiture of the walmart canada banking operations in april 2019. omni-channel. walmart international provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and ecommerce , such as through services like "click &amp; collect" in the united kingdom, our grocery pick-up and delivery business in several other markets, our marketplaces, such as flipkart in india, and a digital transaction platform anchored in payments such as phonepe in india. generally, retail units' selling area range in size from 1,400 square feet to 186,000 square feet. our wholesale stores' selling area generally range in size from 25,000 square feet to 156,000 square feet. as of january 31, 2020 , walmart international had nearly 3,200 grocery pickup and/or delivery locations across its markets. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for walmart international is similar to that of our operations in the u.s. in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of our sales, we have both leveraged u.s. private brands and developed market specific private brands to serve our customers with high quality, low priced items. along with the private brands we market globally, such as "equate," "george," "great value," "holiday time," "mainstays," "marketside" and "parent's choice," our international markets have developed market specific brands including "aurrera," "cambridge," "lider," "myntra," "phonepe" and "extra special." in addition, we have developed relationships with regional and local suppliers in each market to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise that is equal to national brands at low prices. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in walmart international vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. operating units in each country accept a variety of payment methods. seasonal aspects of operations. walmart international's business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment's highest sales volume and operating income have occurred in the fourth quarter of our fiscal year. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different weather patterns. competition. walmart international competes with omni-channel retailers who operate department, drug, discount, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, hypermarkets and supercenter-type stores, wholesale clubs, home-improvement stores, specialty electronics stores, cash &amp; carry operations and convenience stores, and ecommerce retailers, as well as catalog businesses. our ability to develop and operate units at the right locations and to deliver a customer-centric omni-channel experience largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we believe price leadership is a critical part of our business model and we continue to focus on moving our markets towards an edlp approach. additionally, our ability to operate food departments effectively has a significant impact on our competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 221 distribution facilities located in argentina, canada, central america, chile, china, japan, mexico, south africa, india and the united kingdom. certain of these facilities are used to ship merchandise to both our stores and customers on our ecommerce platforms. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2020 , approximately 85% of walmart international's purchases passed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of walmart international's purchases directly to our stores in the various markets in which we operate. we ship merchandise purchased by customers on our ecommerce platforms by a number of methods from multiple locations including from our 88 dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers, as well as more than 2,500 ecommerce sort centers in india. sam's club segment sam's club operates in 44 states in the u.s. and in puerto rico. sam's club is a membership-only warehouse club that also operates samsclub.com. sam's club had net sales of $58.8 billion for fiscal 2020 , representing 11% of our consolidated fiscal 2020 net sales, and had net sales of $ 57.8 billion and $59.2 billion for fiscal 2019 and 2018 , respectively. as a membership-only warehouse club, membership income is a significant component of the segment's operating income. sam's club operates with a lower gross profit rate and lower operating expenses as a percentage of net sales than our other segments. 10 membership. the following two options are available to members: plus membership club membership annual membership fee $100 $45 number of add-on memberships ($40 each) up to 16 up to 8 eligible for cash rewards yes no all memberships include a spouse/household card at no additional cost. plus members are eligible for cash rewards, which is a benefit that provides 2% back on qualifying sam's club purchases up to a $500 cash reward annually. the amount earned can be used for purchases, membership fees or redeemed for cash. plus members are also eligible for free shipping on the majority of merchandise, with no minimum order size, and receive discounts on prescriptions and glasses. omni-channel. while sam's club is a membership-only warehouse club, it provides an omni-channel experience to customers, integrating retail stores and ecommerce . the warehouse facility sizes generally range between 32,000 and 168,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. members have access to a broad assortment of merchandise, including products not found in our clubs, and services online at samsclub.com and through our mobile commerce applications, providing services such as "club pickup" or the option of delivery direct-to-home. merchandise. sam's club offers merchandise in the following five merchandise categories: grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; fuel, tobacco and other categories consists of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture, photo processing and third-party gift cards; and health and wellness includes pharmacy, optical and hearing services and over-the-counter drugs. in addition, the member's mark private label brand continues to expand assortment and deliver member value. operations. operating hours for sam's clubs are generally monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, most club locations offer plus members the ability to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. a variety of payment methods are accepted. consistent with its strategy, sam's club continues to develop technology tools to drive a great member experience in club. for example, sam's garage, a new application in its tire and battery business, is leveraging technology in new ways to provide a personalized and efficient shopping experience. sam's club also offers "scan and go," a mobile checkout and payment solution, which allows members to bypass the checkout line. seasonal aspects of operations. sam's club's business is seasonal to a certain extent due to calendar events and national and religious holidays, as well as different weather patterns. historically, its highest sales volume has occurred in the fiscal quarter ending january 31. competition. sam's club competes with other membership-only warehouse clubs, the largest of which is costco, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations as well as omni-channel and ecommerce retailers and catalog businesses. at sam's club, we provide value at members-only prices, a quality merchandise assortment, and bulk sizing to serve both our plus and club members. our ecommerce website and mobile commerce applications have increasingly become important factors in our ability to compete. distribution. during fiscal 2020 , approximately 73% of sam's club's non-fuel club purchases were shipped from sam's club's 25 dedicated distribution facilities, located strategically throughout the u.s., or from some of the walmart u.s. segment's distribution facilities, which service the sam's club segment for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam's club segment's club purchases directly to sam's club locations. sam's club ships merchandise purchased on samsclub.com and through its mobile commerce applications by a number of methods including shipments made directly from clubs, nine dedicated ecommerce fulfillment centers, two dedicated import facilities and other distribution centers. 11 sam's club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. the segment contracts with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution facilities to clubs. intellectual property we regard our trademarks, service marks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, trade secrets, proprietary technologies, and similar intellectual property as important to our success, and with respect to our associates, customers and others, we rely on trademark, copyright, and patent law, trade-secret protection, and confidentiality and/or license agreements to protect our proprietary rights. we have registered, or applied for the registration of, a number of u.s. and international domain names, trademarks, service marks and copyrights. additionally, we have filed u.s. and international patent applications covering certain of our proprietary technology. we have licensed in the past, and expect that we may license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights to third parties. suppliers and supply chain as a retailer and warehouse club operator, we utilize a global supply chain that includes over 100,000 suppliers located around the world, including in the u.s., from whom we purchase the merchandise that we sell in our stores, clubs and online. in many instances, we purchase merchandise from producers located near the stores and clubs in which such merchandise will be sold, particularly products in the "fresh" category. our purchases may represent a significant percentage of the annual sales for a number of our suppliers, and the volume of product we acquire from many suppliers allows us to obtain favorable pricing from such suppliers. our suppliers are subject to standards of conduct, including requirements that they comply with local labor laws, local worker safety laws and other applicable laws. our ability to acquire from our suppliers the assortment and volume of products we wish to offer to our customer, to receive those products within the required time through our supply chain and to distribute those products to our stores and clubs determines, in part, our in-stock levels in our stores and clubs and the attractiveness of our merchandise assortment we offer to our customers and members. employees as of the end of fiscal 2020 , walmart inc. and our subsidiaries employed more than 2.2 million employees ("associates") worldwide, with 1.5 million associates in the u.s. and 0.7 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates. we believe our relationships with our associates are good. a large number of associates turn over each year, although walmart u.s. turnover has improved in recent years as a result of our focus on increasing wages and providing improved tools, technology and training to associates. certain information relating to retirement-related benefits we provide to our associates is included in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements. in addition to retirement-related benefits, in the u.s. we offer a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates. these include a store discount card or sam's club membership, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of associate purchases of our stock through our associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. in addition to the health-care benefits for eligible full-time and part-time associates in the u.s., we offer maternity leave and a paid parental leave program to all full-time associates. we also offer a $5,000 benefit to assist eligible associates with adoption. additionally, we offer eligible associates tuition assistance towards earning a college degree through "live better u," which allows associates to earn a college degree or certificate for the equivalent of $1 per day. similarly, in our operations outside the u.s., we provide a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 12 information about our executive officers the following chart names the executive officers of the company as of the date of the filing of this annual report on form 10-k with the sec, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age daniel j. bartlett executive vice president, corporate affairs, effective june 2013. from november 2007 to june 2013, he served as the chief executive officer and president of u.s. operations at hill &amp; knowlton, inc., a public relations company. 2013 48 m. brett biggs executive vice president and chief financial officer, effective january 2016. from january 2014 to december 2015, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of walmart international. 2016 51 rachel brand executive vice president, global governance, chief legal officer and corporate secretary, effective april 2018. from may 2017 to february 2018, she served as associate attorney general in the united states department of justice. from january 2017 to may 2017, ms. brand was an associate professor of law at george mason university antonin scalia law school. from august 2012 to february 2017, she served as a board member on the privacy and civil liberties oversight board of the u.s. government. 2018 46 david m. chojnowski senior vice president and controller effective january 2017. from october 2014 to january 2017, he served as vice president and controller, walmart u.s. 2017 50 john furner executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. effective november 2019. from february 2017 until november 2019, he served as president and chief executive officer, sam's club. from october 2015 to january 2017, he served as executive vice president and chief merchandising officer of sam's club. 2019 45 suresh kumar executive vice president, global chief technology officer and chief development officer effective july 2019. from february 2018 until june 2019, mr. kumar was vice president and general manager at google llc. from may 2014 until february 2018, he was corporate vice president at microsoft corporation. 2019 55 marc lore executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, u.s. ecommerce, effective september 2016. from april 2014 to september 2016, he served as president and chief executive officer of jet.com, inc. 2016 48 judith mckenna executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international, effective february 2018. from february 2015 to january 2018, she served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of walmart u.s. 2018 53 kathryn mclay executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam's club effective november 15, 2019. from february 2019 to november 2019, she served as executive vice president, walmart u.s. neighborhood markets. from december 2015 until february 2019, she served as senior vice president, u.s. supply chain. ms. mclay originally joined the company in april 2015 as vice president of u.s. finance and strategy. 2019 46 c. douglas mcmillon president and chief executive officer, effective february 2014. from february 2009 to january 2014, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. 2014 53 donna morris executive vice president, global people and chief people officer, effective february 2020. from april 2002 to january 2020, she served at adobe inc. in various roles, including most recently, chief human resources officer and executive vice president, employee experience. 2020 52 13 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.stock.walmart.com. we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k, amendments to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. the sec maintains a website that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov. our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on our website at www.stock.walmart.com. these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart's code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers or our statement of ethics for our chief executive officer, our chief financial officer and our controller, who is our principal accounting officer, will be disclosed on our website at www.stock.walmart.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could, in ways we may or may not be able to accurately predict, materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the u.s. and globally. the following risk factors do not identify all risks that we may face. strategic risks general or macro-economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may materially adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions and other economic factors, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. higher interest rates, lower or higher prices of petroleum products, including crude oil, natural gas, gasoline, and diesel fuel, higher costs for electricity and other energy, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, increased costs of essential services, such as medical care and utilities, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, changes in consumer spending and shopping patterns, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates, imposition of new taxes or other changes in tax laws, changes in healthcare laws, other regulatory changes, the imposition of tariffs or other measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, overall economic slowdown or recession and other economic factors in the u.s. or in any of the other markets in which we operate could adversely affect consumer demand for the products we sell in the u.s. or such other markets, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods, adversely affect our net sales and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns of inventory, or otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results and could result in impairment charges to intangible assets, goodwill or other long-lived assets. in addition, the economic factors listed above, any other economic factors or circumstances resulting in higher transportation, labor, insurance or healthcare costs or commodity prices, and other economic factors in the u.s. and other countries in which we operate can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses and otherwise materially adversely affect our operations and operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations may also adversely affect the operations of our suppliers, which can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators which could materially adversely affect our financial performance. each of our segments competes for customers, employees, digital prominence, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional, national and global ecommerce and omni-channel retailers, wholesale club operators and retail intermediaries. we compete in a variety of ways, including the prices at which we sell our merchandise, merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities, the shopping convenience and overall shopping experience we offer, the attractiveness and ease of use of our digital platforms, cost and speed of and options for delivery to customers of merchandise purchased through our digital platforms or through our omni-channel integration of our physical and digital operations. 14 a failure to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets or delays or failure in execution of our strategy could materially adversely affect our financial performance. see " item 1. business " above for additional discussion of the competitive situation of each of our reportable segments. certain segments of the retail industry are undergoing consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. other segments are substantially reducing operations which could also result in competition rushing to fill the void created by such corporate actions. such consolidation, or other business combinations or alliances, or reduction in operation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations or alliances could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated or aligned companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. if we do not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends or preferences, it could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, demand for the products and services we sell, our market share and the growth of our business. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand and changes in their shopping patterns. the success of our business depends in part on how accurately we predict consumer demand, availability of merchandise, the related impact on the demand for existing products and the competitive environment. price transparency, assortment of products, customer experience, convenience, ease and the speed and cost of shipping are of primary importance to customers and continue to increase in importance, particularly as a result of digital tools and social media available to consumers and the choices available to consumers for purchasing products. our failure to adequately or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns, or any other failure on our part to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and shopping patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for the products we sell or services we offer, our market share and the growth of our business. failure to successfully execute our omni-channel strategy and the cost of our investments in ecommerce and technology may materially adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance. the retail business continues to rapidly evolve and consumers increasingly embrace digital shopping. as a result, the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers and wholesale clubs occurring through digital platforms is increasing and the pace of this increase could accelerate. our strategy, which includes investments in ecommerce, technology, acquisitions, joint ventures, store remodels and other customer initiatives may not adequately or effectively allow us to grow our ecommerce business, increase comparable store sales, maintain or grow our overall market position or otherwise offset the impact on the growth of our business of a moderated pace of new store and club openings. the success of this strategy will depend in large measure on our ability to continue building and delivering a seamless omni-channel shopping experience for our customers and is further subject to the related risks discussed in this item 1a . failure to successfully execute this strategy may adversely affect our market position, net sales and financial performance which could also result in impairment charges to intangible assets or other long-lived assets. in addition, a greater concentration of ecommerce sales, including increasing online grocery sales, could result in a reduction in the amount of traffic in our stores and clubs, which would, in turn, reduce the opportunities for cross-store or cross-club sales of merchandise that such traffic creates and could reduce our sales within our stores and clubs and materially adversely affect our financial performance. furthermore, the cost of certain ecommerce and technology investments, including any operating losses incurred, will adversely impact our financial performance in the short-term and failure to realize the benefits of these investments may adversely impact our financial performance over the longer term. the performance of strategic alliances and other business relationships to support the expansion of our business could materially adversely affect our financial performance. we may enter into strategic alliances and other business relationships in the countries in which we have existing operations or in other markets to expand our retail operations. these arrangements may not generate the level of sales we anticipate when entering into the arrangement or may otherwise adversely impact our business and competitive position relative to the results we could have achieved in the absence of such alliance. in addition, any investment we make in connection with a strategic alliance or business relationship could materially adversely affect our financial performance. 15 operational risks natural disasters, changes in climate, and geo-political events and catastrophic events could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, tropical storms, floods, fires, earthquakes, tsunamis, cyclones, typhoons; weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornadoes, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise; severe changes in climate; geo-political events; global health epidemics or pandemics or other contagious outbreaks such as the recent coronavirus (covid-19) outbreak; and catastrophic events, such as war, civil unrest, terrorist attacks or other acts of violence, including active shooter situations (such as those that have occurred in our u.s. stores), in countries in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution facilities, limitations on store or club operating hours, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distribution facilities are located, the unavailability of our digital platforms to our customers, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers (including the frequency of visits by consumers to physical retail locations, whether as a result of limitations on large gatherings, travel and movement limitations or otherwise) and in consumers' disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution facilities or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and the disruption in our communications with our stores. for example, our results for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 were negatively impacted by riots and looting in chile which resulted in us closing a number of our stores until the disruption abated. we bear the risk of losses incurred as a result of physical damage to, or destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution facilities, loss or spoilage of inventory and business interruption caused by such events. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which they occur and could materially adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with our suppliers could materially adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. we expect our suppliers to comply with applicable laws, including labor, safety, anti-corruption and environmental laws, and to otherwise meet our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who uphold our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner, is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the u.s. political and economic instability, as well as other impactful events and circumstances in the countries in which our suppliers and their manufacturers are located (such as the recent coronavirus outbreak which could result in potential disruptions or delays to our global supply chain), the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers' failure to meet our terms and conditions or our supplier standards (including our responsible sourcing standards), labor problems experienced by our suppliers and their manufacturers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise safety and quality issues, disruption or delay in the transportation of merchandise from the suppliers and manufacturers to our stores, clubs, and other facilities, including as a result of labor slowdowns at any port at which a material amount of merchandise we purchase enters into the markets in which we operate, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the u.s. foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. if the products we sell are not safe or otherwise fail to meet our customers' expectations, we could lose customers, incur liability for any injuries suffered by customers using or consuming a product we sell or otherwise experience a material impact to our brand, reputation and financial performance. we are also subject to reputational and other risks related to third-party sales on our digital platforms. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers or that we prepare and then sell could cause customers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish and such products also expose us to product liability or food safety claims. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food or non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our brand, reputation and financial performance. in addition, 16 third-parties sell goods on some of our digital platforms, which we refer to as marketplace transactions. whether laws related to such sales apply to us is currently unsettled and any unfavorable changes could expose us to loss of sales, reduction in transactions and deterioration of our competitive position. in addition, we may face reputational, financial and other risks, including liability, for third-party sales of goods that are controversial, counterfeit or otherwise fail to comply with applicable law. although we impose contractual terms on sellers that are intended to prohibit sales of certain type of products, we may not be able to detect, enforce, or collect sufficient damages for breaches of such agreements. any of these events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our ecommerce growth strategy. we rely extensively on information systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in our systems could harm our ability to conduct our operations. given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is crucial that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical information systems. our information systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, worms, other malicious computer programs, denial-of-service attacks, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from cyber-attackers and sophisticated organizations including nation states), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes, earthquakes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates or contractors. our information systems are essential to our business operations, including the processing of transactions, management of our associates, facilities, logistics, inventories, physical stores and clubs and our online operations. our information systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if our systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data as well as suffer interruptions in our business operations in the interim. any interruption to our information systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are constantly updating our information technology processes and systems. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken. if we fail to timely integrate and update our information systems and processes, we may fail to realize the cost savings or operational benefits anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. if the technology-based systems that give our customers the ability to shop with us online do not function effectively, our operating results, as well as our ability to grow our omni-channel business globally, could be materially adversely affected. increasingly, customers are using computers, tablets, and smart phones to shop with us and with our competitors and to do comparison shopping. we use social media, online advertising, and email to interact with our customers and as a means to enhance their shopping experience. as a part of our omni-channel sales strategy, in addition to home delivery, we offer various pickup and delivery programs under which many products available for purchase online can be picked up by the customer or member at a local walmart store or sam's club, which provides additional customer traffic at such stores and clubs. omni-channel retailing is a rapidly evolving part of the retail industry and of our operations around the world. we must anticipate and meet our customers' changing expectations while adjusting for technology investments and developments in our competitors' operations through focusing on the building and delivery of a seamless shopping experience across all channels by each operating segment. any failure on our part to provide attractive, user-friendly secure digital platforms that offer a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices and with low cost and rapid delivery options and that continually meet the changing expectations of online shoppers and developments in online and digital platform merchandising and related technology could place us at a competitive disadvantage, result in the loss of ecommerce and other sales, harm our reputation with customers, have a material adverse impact on the growth of our ecommerce business globally and have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations. our digital platforms, which are increasingly important to our business and continue to grow in complexity and scope, and the systems on which they run, including those applications and systems in our acquired ecommerce businesses, are regularly subject to cyber-attacks. those attacks involve attempts to gain unauthorized access to our ecommerce websites (including marketplace platforms) or mobile commerce applications to obtain and misuse customers' or members' information including payment information and related risks discussed in this item 1a. such attacks, if successful, in addition to potential data misuse, may also create denials of service or otherwise disable, degrade or sabotage one or more of our digital platforms or otherwise significantly disrupt our customers' and members' shopping experience. if we are unable to maintain the security of our digital platforms and keep them operating within acceptable parameters, we could suffer loss of sales, reductions in transactions, reputational damage and deterioration of our competitive position and incur liability for any damage to customers or others whose personal or confidential information is unlawfully obtained and misused, any of which events could have a material adverse impact on our business and results of operations and impede the execution of our strategy for the growth of our business. 17 any failure to maintain the security of the information relating to our company, customers, members, associates and vendors, whether as a result of cybersecurity attacks on our information systems or otherwise, could damage our reputation, result in litigation or other legal actions against us, cause us to incur substantial additional costs, and materially adversely affect our business and operating results. like most retailers, we receive and store in our information systems personal information about our customers and members, and we receive and store personal information concerning our associates and vendors. some of that information is stored digitally in connection with our digital platforms. we also utilize third-party service providers for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, for digital storage technology, content delivery to customers and members, back-office support, and other functions. such providers may have access to information we hold about our customers, members, associates or vendors. in addition, our ecommerce operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. cyber threats are rapidly evolving and those threats and the means for obtaining access to information in digital and other storage media are becoming increasingly sophisticated. cyber threats and cyber-attackers can be sponsored by countries or sophisticated criminal organizations or be the work of hackers with a wide range of motives and expertise. we and the businesses with which we interact have experienced and continue to experience threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information, and cause system failures and disruptions. some of our systems have experienced limited security breaches and although they did not have a material adverse effect on our operating results, there can be no assurance of a similar result in the future. associate error or malfeasance, faulty password management, social engineering or other irregularities may also result in a defeat of our or our third-party service providers' security measures and a breach of our or their information systems. moreover, hardware, software or applications we use may have inherent vulnerabilities or defects of design, manufacture or operations or could be inadvertently or intentionally implemented or used in a manner that could compromise information security. any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with which we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged, modified, lost or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, members, associates, vendors, financial institutions, payment card networks and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of a compromise, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures and we or our third-party service providers may not discover any security breach, vulnerability or compromise of information for a significant period of time after the security incident occurs. in addition, such events could be widely publicized and could materially adversely affect our reputation with our customers, members, associates, vendors and shareholders, could harm our competitive position particularly with respect to our ecommerce operations, and could result in a material reduction in our net sales in our ecommerce operations, as well as in our stores thereby materially adversely affecting our operations, net sales, results of operations, financial condition, cash flows and liquidity. such events could also result in the release to the public of confidential information about our operations and financial condition and performance and could result in litigation or other legal actions against us or the imposition of penalties, fines, fees or liabilities, which may not be covered by our insurance policies. moreover, a security compromise could require us to devote significant management resources to address the problems created by the issue and to expend significant additional resources to upgrade further the security measures we employ to guard personal and confidential information against cyber-attacks and other attempts to access or otherwise compromise such information and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our digital operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, and our private label credit cards and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time, which may have information security risk implications. as a retailer accepting debit and credit cards for payment, we are subject to various industry data protection standards and protocols, such as payment network security operating guidelines and the payment card industry data security standard. we cannot be certain that the security measures we maintain to protect all of our information technology systems are able to prevent, contain or detect cyber-attacks, cyber terrorism, security breaches or other compromises from known malware or other threats that may be developed in the future. to the extent that any cyber-attack or incursion in our or one of our third-party service provider's information systems results in the loss, damage, misappropriation or other compromise of information, we may be materially adversely affected by claims from customers, financial institutions, regulatory authorities, payment card networks and others. in certain circumstances, our contracts with payment card processors and payment card networks (such as visa, mastercard, american express and discover) generally require us to adhere to payment card network rules which could make us liable to payment card issuers and others if information in connection with payment cards and payment card transactions that we process is compromised, which liabilities could be substantial. 18 additionally, we offer money (wire) transfer services, digital payment platforms, bill payment, money orders and check cashing and we sell prepaid cards and gift cards. we further offer co-branded credit cards and installment loans through financial services partners. these products and services require us to comply with legal and regulatory requirements, including global anti-money laundering and sanctions laws and regulations as well as international, federal and state consumer financial laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and harm to our reputation. the company also has compliance obligations associated with new privacy laws enacted to protect personal information. the california consumer privacy act of 2018, (ccpa), grants california consumers certain rights over their personal information and imposes stringent requirements on the collection, use and sharing of personal information of california consumers. other u.s. states are proposing similar laws related to the protection of personal information and the u.s. federal government is also considering federal privacy legislation. outside the u.s., the european union's ( eu ) general data protection regulation ( gdpr ) greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of eu law and adds a broad array of requirements related to personal data. complying with changing regulatory requirements requires us to incur additional costs and expenses. if we fail to comply with ccpa, gdpr or other privacy related regulations, or if regulators assert we have failed to comply with them, it could lead to regulatory enforcement action, monetary fines or penalties (up to 4% of worldwide revenue in the case of gdpr), lawsuits or reputational damage and could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in the results of our retail pharmacy business could adversely affect our overall results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. walmart has retail pharmacy operations in our walmart u.s. and sam's club segments, as well as the recent addition of walmart health centers to some of our u.s. stores. a large majority of our retail pharmacy net sales are generated by filling prescriptions for which we receive payment through established contractual relationships with third-party payers and payment administrators, such as private insurers, governmental agencies and pharmacy benefit managers ("pbms"). our retail pharmacy operations are subject to numerous risks, including: reductions in the third-party reimbursement rates for drugs; changes in our payer mix (i.e., shifts in the relative distribution of our pharmacy customers across drug insurance plans and programs toward plans and programs with less favorable reimbursement terms); changes in third-party payer drug formularies (i.e., the schedule of prescription drugs approved for reimbursement or which otherwise receive preferential coverage treatment); growth in, and our participation in or exclusion from, exclusive and preferred pharmacy network arrangements operated by pbms and/or any insurance plan or program; increases in the prices we pay for brand name and generic prescription drugs we sell; increases in the administrative burdens associated with seeking third-party reimbursement; changes in the frequency with which new brand name pharmaceuticals become available to consumers; introduction of lower cost generic drugs as substitutes for existing brand name drugs for which there was no prior generic drug competition; changes in drug mix (i.e., the relative distribution of drugs customers purchase at our pharmacies between brands and generics); changes in the health insurance market generally; changes in the scope of or the elimination of medicare part d or medicaid drug programs; increased competition from other retail pharmacy operations; further consolidation and strategic alliances among third-party payers, pbms or purchasers of drugs; overall economic conditions and the ability of our pharmacy customers to pay for drugs prescribed for them to the extent the costs are not reimbursed by a third-party; failure to meet any performance or incentive thresholds to which our level of third-party reimbursement may be subject; and changes in the regulatory environment for the retail pharmacy industry and the pharmaceutical industry, including as a result of restrictions on the further implementation of or the repeal of the patient protection and affordable care act or the enactment and implementation of a law replacing such act, and other changes in laws, rules and regulations that affect our retail pharmacy business. if the supply of certain pharmaceuticals provided by one or more of our vendors were to be disrupted for any reason, our pharmacy operations could be severely affected until at least such time as we could obtain a new supplier for such pharmaceuticals. any such disruption could cause reputational damage and result in a significant number of our pharmacy customers transferring their prescriptions to other pharmacies. one or a combination of such factors may adversely affect the volumes of brand name and generic pharmaceuticals we sell, our cost of sales associated with our retail pharmacy operations, and the net sales and gross margin of those operations or result in the loss of cross-store or cross-club selling opportunities and, in turn, adversely affect our overall net sales, other results of operations, cash flows and liquidity. our failure to attract and retain qualified associates, increases in wage and benefit costs, changes in laws and other labor issues could materially adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to conduct and expand our operations depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates globally. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs, distribution centers and corporate offices, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we operate, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised 19 employment and labor laws and regulations. additionally, our ability to successfully execute organizational changes, including management transitions within the company's senior leadership, such as our recent leadership changes, and to effectively motivate and retain associates are critical to our business success. if we are unable to locate, attract or retain qualified personnel, or manage leadership transition successfully, the quality of service we provide to our customers may decrease and our financial performance may be adversely affected. in addition, if our costs of labor or related costs increase for other reasons or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations or healthcare laws are adopted or implemented that further increase our labor costs, our financial performance could be materially adversely affected. financial risks fluctuations in foreign exchange rates may materially adversely affect our financial performance and our reported results of operations. our operations in countries other than the u.s. are conducted primarily in the local currencies of those countries. our consolidated financial statements are denominated in u.s. dollars, and to prepare those financial statements we must translate the amounts of the assets, liabilities, net sales, other revenues and expenses of our operations outside of the u.s. from local currencies into u.s. dollars using exchange rates for the current period. in recent years, fluctuations in currency exchange rates that were unfavorable have had adverse effects on our reported results of operations. as a result of such translations, fluctuations in currency exchange rates from period-to-period that are unfavorable to us may also result in our consolidated financial statements reflecting significant adverse period-over-period changes in our financial performance or reflecting a period-over-period improvement in our financial performance that is not as robust as it would be without such fluctuations in the currency exchange rates. such unfavorable currency exchange rate fluctuations will adversely affect the reported performance of our walmart international operating segment and have a corresponding adverse effect on our reported consolidated results of operations. we may pay for products we purchase for sale in our stores and clubs around the world with a currency other than the local currency of the country in which the goods will be sold. when we must acquire the currency to pay for such products and the exchange rates for the payment currency fluctuate in a manner unfavorable to us, our cost of sales may increase and we may be unable or unwilling to change the prices at which we sell those goods to address that increase in our costs, with a corresponding adverse effect on our gross profit. consequently, unfavorable fluctuations in currency exchange rates have and may continue to adversely affect our results of operations. failure to meet market expectations for our financial performance could adversely affect the market price and volatility of our stock. we believe that the price of our stock generally reflects high market expectations for our future operating results. any failure to meet or delay in meeting these expectations, including our comparable store and club sales growth rates, ecommerce growth rates, gross margin, or earnings and earnings per share could cause the market price of our stock to decline, as could changes in our dividend or stock repurchase programs or policies. additionally, failure of walmart's performance to compare favorably to that of other retailers may have a negative effect on the price of our stock. legal, tax, regulatory, compliance, reputational and other risks our international operations subject us to legislative, judicial, accounting, legal, regulatory, tax, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could materially adversely affect our business or financial performance. in addition to our u.s. operations, we operate our retail business in africa, argentina, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico and the united kingdom. during fiscal 2020, our walmart international operations generated approximately 23% of our consolidated net sales. walmart international's operations in various countries also source goods and services from other countries. our future operating results in these countries could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, local and global economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints (such as regulation of product and service offerings including regulatory restrictions (such as foreign ownership restrictions) on ecommerce and retail operations in international markets, such as india), restrictive governmental actions (such as trade protection measures), local product safety and environmental laws, tax regulations, local labor laws, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, trade policies, currency regulations, laws and regulations regarding consumer and data protection, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. for example, during the current transition period following the uk's recent exit from the european union, we face continued uncertainty regarding the impact on our uk business of potential changes in tariffs, trade practices and other regulations while the uk and eu work to put in place alternative trade and other arrangements. 20 the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies of the u.s. and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries that have historically been less stable than the u.s.. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the u.s.. the various risks inherent in doing business in the u.s. generally also exist when doing business outside of the u.s., and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. in foreign countries in which we have operations, a risk exists that our associates, contractors or agents could, in contravention of our policies, engage in business practices prohibited by u.s. laws and regulations applicable to us, such as the foreign corrupt practices act ("fcpa"), or the laws and regulations of other countries, such as the uk bribery act. we maintain a global policy prohibiting such business practices and have in place a global anti-corruption compliance program designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations. nevertheless, we remain subject to the risk that one or more of our associates, contractors or agents, including those based in or from countries where practices that violate such u.s. laws and regulations or the laws and regulations of other countries may be customary, will engage in business practices that are prohibited by our policies, circumvent our compliance programs and, by doing so, violate such laws and regulations. any such violations, even if prohibited by our internal policies, could adversely affect our business or financial performance and our reputation. changes in tax and trade laws and regulations could materially adversely affect our financial performance. in fiscal 2020, our walmart u.s. and sam's club operating segments generated approximately 77% of our consolidated net sales. the federal government has created the potential for significant changes in trade policies, including tariffs and government regulations affecting trade between the u.s. and other countries where we source many of the products we sell in our stores and clubs. potential changes which have been discussed include the renegotiation or termination of trade agreements and the imposition of higher tariffs on imports into the u.s. a significant portion of the general merchandise we sell in our u.s. stores and clubs is manufactured in other countries. any such actions including the imposition of further tariffs on imports could increase the cost to us of such merchandise (whether imported directly or indirectly) and cause increases in the prices at which we sell such merchandise to our customers, which could materially adversely affect the financial performance of our u.s. operations and our business. we are subject to income taxes and other taxes in both the u.s. and the foreign jurisdictions in which we currently operate or have historically operated. the determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and current and deferred tax assets and liabilities requires judgment and estimation. our income taxes could be materially adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by changes in worldwide tax laws, tax rates, regulations or accounting principles. for example, in december 2019, india enacted a bill which significantly reduced the corporate income tax for certain companies with operations in india. in the u.s., the tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the "tax act") significantly changed income tax laws that affect u.s. corporations with additional guidance from the u.s. tax authority still pending. as further guidance is issued by the u.s. treasury department, the irs, and other standard-setting bodies, any resulting changes in our estimates will be treated in accordance with the relevant accounting guidance. compliance with the tax act, including collecting information not regularly produced by the company or unexpected changes in our estimates, may require us to incur additional costs and could affect our results of operations. in addition, we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities as well as subject to the prospective and retrospective effects of changing tax regulations and legislation. although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may materially differ from the tax amounts recorded in our consolidated financial statements and may materially affect our income tax provision, net income, or cash flows in the period or periods for which such determination and settlement is made. 21 changes in and/or failure to comply with other laws and regulations specific to the environments in which we operate could materially adversely affect our reputation, market position, or our business and financial performance. we operate in complex regulated environments in the u.s. and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. our pharmacy and other healthcare operations in the u.s. are subject to numerous federal, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: federal and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including the health insurance portability and accountability act, the affordable care act, laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration (the "fda") and the drug enforcement administration (the "dea"), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell and the financial services we offer; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; and federal and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the professions of pharmacy, optical care and nurse practitioner services. for example, in the u.s. the dea and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal and holding of controlled substances. the dea, the fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws and regulations of general applicability, including laws and regulations related to working conditions, health and safety, equal employment opportunity, employee benefit and other labor and employment matters, laws and regulations related to competition, and antitrust matters, and health and wellness related regulations for our pharmacy operations outside of the u.s. in addition, certain financial services we offer or make available, such as our money transfer agent services, are subject to legal and regulatory requirements, including those intended to help detect and prevent money laundering, sanctions, fraud and other illicit activity as well as consumer financial protection. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations, as well as changes in enforcement practices or regulatory scrutiny generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs, require significant capital expenditures, or adversely impact the cost or attractiveness of the products or services we offer. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the u.s.; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary damages and/or penalties. in addition, failure to comply with applicable legal or regulatory requirements in the u.s. or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. 22 we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may materially adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. in particular, we are currently a defendant in a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws, as well as a number of cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state consumer laws. in addition, asda stores, ltd. ("asda"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of the company, has been named as a defendant in numerous "equal value" claims pending in the manchester employment tribunal (the "employment tribunal") in the united kingdom. the claimants, who are current and former asda store employees, allege that the work performed by employees in asda's retail stores is of equal value in terms of, among other things, the demands of their jobs to that of employees working in asda's warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the difference in pay between these job positions disparately impacts women because more women work in retail stores while more men work in warehouses and distribution facilities, and that the pay difference is not objectively justified. the claimants are seeking differential back pay based on higher wage rates in the warehouses and distribution facilities and higher wage rates on a prospective basis. at present, we cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from these matters . the company has been responding to subpoenas, information requests and investigations from governmental entities related to nationwide controlled substance dispensing and distribution practices involving opioids and is also a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings related to opioids including the consolidated multidistrict litigation entitled in re national prescription opiate litigation (mdl no. 2804) , currently pending in the u.s. district court for the northern district of ohio. similar cases that name the company have also been filed in state courts by state, local and tribal governments, health care providers and other plaintiffs. plaintiffs are seeking compensatory and punitive damages, as well as injunctive relief including abatement. the company cannot predict the number of such claims that may be filed, and cannot reasonably estimate any loss or range of loss that may arise from such claims and the related opioid matters. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party below under the caption " item 3. legal proceedings " and in note 10 in the " notes to our consolidated financial statements ," which are part of this annual report on form 10-k. our amended and restated bylaws designate the court of chancery of the state of delaware as the sole and exclusive forum for certain types of actions and proceedings that may be initiated by our shareholders, which could limit our shareholders' ability to obtain a favorable judicial forum for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or shareholders in such capacity. our bylaws provide that, unless we consent in writing to the selection of an alternative forum, the court of chancery of the state of delaware will, to the fullest extent permitted by law, be the sole and exclusive forum for claims, including derivative claims that are based upon a violation of a duty by a current or former director, officer, employee or shareholder in such capacity or as to which the delaware general corporation law confers jurisdiction upon the court of chancery. this exclusive forum provision may limit a shareholder's ability to bring a claim in a judicial forum that the shareholder finds favorable for disputes with us or our directors, officers, employees or shareholders in such capacity, which may discourage such lawsuits against us and such persons. alternatively, if a court were to find these provisions of our bylaws inapplicable to, or unenforceable in respect of, the claims as to which they are intended to apply, then we may incur additional costs associated with resolving such matters in other jurisdictions, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk market risk in addition to the risks inherent in our operations, we are exposed to certain market risks, including changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and the fair value of our equity investment in jd.com. the analysis presented below for each of our market risk sensitive instruments is based on a hypothetical scenario used to calibrate potential risk and does not represent our view of future market changes. the effect of a change in a particular assumption is calculated without adjusting any other assumption. in reality, however, a change in one factor could cause a change in another, which may magnify or negate other sensitivities. interest rate risk we are exposed to changes in interest rates as a result of our short-term borrowings and long-term debt. we hedge a portion of our interest rate risk by managing the mix of fixed and variable rate debt and by entering into interest rate swaps. for fiscal 2020 , the net fair value of our interest rate swaps increased $175 million primarily due to fluctuations in market interest rates. the table below provides information about our financial instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. for long-term debt, the table represents the principal cash flows and related weighted-average interest rates by expected maturity dates. for interest rate swaps, the table represents the contractual cash flows and weighted-average interest rates by the contractual maturity date, unless otherwise noted. the notional amounts are used to calculate contractual cash flows to be exchanged under the contracts. the weighted-average variable rates are based upon prevailing market rates as of january 31, 2020 . expected maturity date (amounts in millions) fiscal 2021 fiscal 2022 fiscal 2023 fiscal 2024 fiscal 2025 thereafter total liabilities short-term borrowings: variable rate $ 575 $ $ $ $ $ $ 575 weighted-average interest rate 5.0 % % % % % % 5.0 % long-term debt (1) : fixed rate $ 4,612 $ 2,366 $ 2,802 $ 4,670 $ 4,400 $ 28,726 $ 47,576 weighted-average interest rate 2.8 % 3.8 % 1.7 % 3.2 % 2.7 % 4.4 % 3.8 % variable rate $ 750 $ 750 $ $ $ $ $ 1,500 weighted-average interest rate 2.0 % 2.2 % % % % % 2.1 % interest rate derivatives interest rate swaps: fixed to variable $ 750 $ $ $ 1,750 $ 1,500 $ $ 4,000 weighted-average pay rate 3.2 % % % 2.2 % 2.8 % % 2.6 % weighted-average receive rate 3.3 % % % 2.6 % 3.3 % % 3.0 % (1) the long-term debt amounts in the table exclude the company's derivatives classified as fair value hedges. as of january 31, 2020 , our variable rate borrowings, including the effect of our commercial paper and interest rate swaps, represented 12% of our total short-term and long-term debt. based on january 31, 2020 debt levels, a 100 basis point change in prevailing market rates would cause our annual interest costs to change by approximately $61 million . 44 foreign currency risk we are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates as a result of our net investments and operations in countries other than the u.s, as well our foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt. for fiscal 2020 , movements in currency exchange rates and the related impact on the translation of the balance sheets of the company's subsidiaries in the uk and mexico were the primary cause of the $0.3 billion gain in the currency translation and other category of accumulated other comprehensive loss. we hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by entering into currency swaps. the aggregate fair value of these swaps was in a liability position of $241 million and asset position of $62 million as of january 31, 2020 and january 31, 2019 , respectively. the change in the fair value of these swaps was due to fluctuations in currency exchange rates, primarily the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies in fiscal 2020 . the hypothetical result of a uniform 10% weakening in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to other currencies underlying these swaps would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $173 million . a hypothetical 10% change in interest rates underlying these swaps from the market rates in effect as of january 31, 2020 would have resulted in a change in the value of the swaps of $42 million . in addition to currency swaps, we also hedge a portion of our foreign currency risk by designating foreign-currency-denominated long-term debt as nonderivative hedges of net investments of certain of our foreign operations. we had outstanding long-term debt of 1.7 billion as of january 31, 2020 and january 31, 2019 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in the uk. as of january 31, 2020 , a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in the value of the u.s. dollar relative to the british pound would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $201 million . in addition, we had outstanding long-term debt of 180 billion as of january 31, 2020 and january 31, 2019 that was designated as a hedge of our net investment in japan. as of january 31, 2020 , a hypothetical 10% change in value of the u.s. dollar relative to the japanese yen would have resulted in a change in the value of the debt of $150 million . in certain countries, we also enter into immaterial foreign currency forward contracts to hedge the purchase and payment of purchase commitments denominated in non-functional currencies. investment risk we are exposed to changes in the jd.com ("jd") stock price as a result of our equity investment in jd. the change in fair value is recorded within other gains and losses resulted in a gain of $1.9 billion in fiscal 2020 due to an increase in the stock price of jd. as of january 31, 2020 , the fair value of our equity investment in jd was $5.4 billion . as of january 31, 2020 , a hypothetical 10% change in the stock price of jd would have changed our investment in jd by approximately $550 million. 45quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk of the caption management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition included in the annual report to shareholders for the year ended january 31, 2004. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report.quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk of the caption management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition included in the annual report to shareholders for the year ended january 31, 2005. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. 2 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2006 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( wal-mart or the company ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world. wal-mart is committed to growing by improving the standard of living for our customers throughout the world. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity. our fiscal year ends on january 31. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2006, we had net sales of $312.4 billion. our wal-mart stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 67.2% of our fiscal 2006 sales. this segment consists of three different traditional retail formats, all of which operate in the united states, and wal-mart online retail format, walmart.com. our traditional wal-mart stores retail formats include: supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket; discount stores, which average approximately 102,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products; and neighborhood markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise. our sam club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs, which operate in the united states, and the segment online retail format, samsclub.com. sam club accounted for 12.7% of our fiscal 2006 sales. our focus for sam club is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at members only prices for both business and personal use. our sam clubs average approximately 129,000 square feet in size. at january 31, 2006, our international segment consisted of retail operations in nine countries and puerto rico. this segment generated 20.1% of our fiscal 2006 sales. the international segment includes several different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and sam clubs that operate outside the united states. additionally, at january 31, 2006, we owned an unconsolidated minority interest of approximately 33.3% of central american retail holding company ( carhco ), a retailer that operates more than 360 supermarkets and other stores in costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua. in february 2006, we acquired an additional 17.7% interest in carhco, to give us majority ownership of carhco. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716. the development of our company although wal-mart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, was opened. in fiscal 1984, we opened our first three sam clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in fiscal 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand, and at january 31, 2006, we had international operations in argentina, brazil, canada, germany, japan, mexico, puerto rico, south korea and the united kingdom. we also operate through joint ventures in china, and at january 31, 2006, owned a minority interest in carhco. 3 at january 31, 2006, we operated 1,209 discount stores, 1,980 supercenters, 567 sam clubs and 100 neighborhood markets in the united states. internationally, at january 31, 2006, the company operated units in argentina (11), brazil (295), canada (278), germany (88), japan (398), mexico (774), puerto rico (54), south korea (16) and the united kingdom (315). we also operated 56 stores through joint ventures in china at january 31, 2006. our growth, measured both by our net sales and net income, occurs in large measure as a result of our domestic and international expansion programs along with comparative store sales increases. for fiscal 2006 and prior years, we considered comparative store sales to be sales at stores that were open as of february 1st of the prior fiscal year and which had not been expanded or relocated since that date. comparative store sales are also referred to as same-store sales by others within the retail industry. the method of calculating comparative store sales varies across the retail industry. as a result, our calculation of comparative store sales is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. beginning in fiscal 2007, we changed our method of calculating comparative store sales. these changes are described in our current report on form 8-k that we furnished to the sec on february 2, 2006. the following tables provide summary information concerning the additions of units and square footage for discount stores, supercenters, neighborhood markets and sam clubs in the united states, and international units in each of our fiscal years from fiscal 2002 through fiscal 2006. wal-mart stores segment store count fiscal years ended january 31, 2002 through 2006 store count (1) wal-mart discount stores wal-mart supercenters fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total opened (2) total balance forward 1,736 888 2002 33 1 121 1,647 178 1,066 2003 43 122 1,568 192 1,258 2004 41 1 130 1,478 213 1,471 2005 36 2 159 1,353 242 1,713 2006 24 2 166 1,209 267 1,980 neighborhood markets total wal-mart segment fiscal year opened total opened (3) closed ending balance balance forward 19 2,643 2002 12 31 102 1 2,744 2003 18 49 131 2,875 2004 15 64 139 1 3,013 2005 21 85 140 2 3,151 2006 15 100 140 2 3,289 (1) totals and ending balances are as of january 31, of the years shown. (2) includes conversions and relocations of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions and relocations of discount stores to supercenters. 4 wal-mart stores segment net square footage growth fiscal years ended january 31, 2002 through 2006 net square footage (in thousands) (1) wal-mart discount stores wal-mart supercenters fiscal year net reductions (2) total net additions (3) total balance forward 165,375 162,598 2002 (7,689 ) 157,686 34,844 197,442 2003 (5,773 ) 151,913 37,169 234,611 2004 (6,848 ) 145,065 40,456 275,067 2005 (9,584 ) 135,481 44,989 320,056 2006 (11,874 ) 123,607 50,655 370,711 neighborhood markets total wal-mart segment fiscal year net additions total net additions total balance forward 898 328,871 2002 520 1,418 27,675 356,546 2003 743 2,161 32,139 388,685 2004 617 2,778 34,225 422,910 2005 843 3,621 36,248 459,158 2006 597 4,218 39,378 498,536 (1) totals are as of january 31, of the years shown. (2) includes the square footage of new discount stores opened, net of discount stores closed, converted or expanded into supercenters or relocated into supercenters. (3) includes conversions and relocations of discount stores to supercenters. sam club segment club count and net square footage growth fiscal years ended january 31, 2002 through 2006 club count (1) net square footage (in thousands) (1) fiscal year opened closed total net additions total balance forward 475 58,001 2002 25 500 3,778 61,779 2003 25 525 3,968 65,747 2004 13 538 2,397 68,144 2005 13 551 2,533 70,677 2006 17 1 567 2,714 73,391 (1) totals are as of january 31, of the years shown. 5 international segment unit count fiscal years ended january 31, 2002 through 2006 store count (1) argentina brazil canada fiscal year wal-mart supercenters wal-mart supercenters sam clubs other (2) total wal-mart stores sam clubs total 2002 11 12 8 2 22 196 196 2003 11 12 8 2 22 213 213 2004 11 13 10 2 25 231 4 235 2005 11 17 12 120 149 256 6 262 2006 11 23 15 257 295 272 6 278 china germany japan (3) fiscal year wal-mart supercenters sam clubs neighborhood markets total supercenters seiyu units 2002 15 3 1 19 95 2003 20 4 2 26 94 2004 28 4 2 34 92 2005 38 3 2 43 91 2006 51 3 2 56 88 398 mexico puerto rico fiscal year wal-mart supercenters sam clubs other (4) total wal-mart stores wal-mart supercenters sam clubs amigo stores total 2002 62 46 427 535 9 1 7 17 2003 75 50 456 581 9 1 9 33 52 2004 83 53 487 623 9 3 9 32 53 2005 89 61 529 679 9 4 9 32 54 2006 105 70 599 774 9 5 9 31 54 south korea united kingdom store count fiscal year wal-mart supercenters asda stores asda supercenters other total grand total 2002 9 244 6 250 1,154 2003 15 248 10 258 1,272 2004 15 253 12 2 267 1,355 2005 16 256 19 7 282 1,587 2006 16 279 21 15 315 2,285 (1) store counts and totals are as of january 31, of the years shown. (2) includes 118 units acquired from bompre&ccedil;o s.a. supermercados do nordeste in february 2004 and 139 units acquired from sonae distribui&ccedil;&atilde;o brasil s.a. in december 2005. (3) excludes 45 wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. (4) at january 31, 2006, included 187 bodegas (combination discount and grocery stores), 53 suburbias (specialty department stores), 55 superamas (traditional supermarkets), 286 vips (restaurants) and 18 units of other formats compared to 162 bodegas (combination discount and grocery stores), 50 suburbias (specialty department stores), 48 superamas (traditional supermarkets) and 269 vips (restaurants) at january 31, 2005. excludes vips franchises for all years presented. 6 international segment net square footage growth fiscal years ended january 31, 2002 through 2006 net square footage (in thousands) (1) argentina brazil canada fiscal year total net additions (2) total net additions total balance forward 2,175 3,035 20,480 2002 2,175 108 3,143 2,488 22,968 2003 2,175 3,143 1,774 24,742 2004 2,175 227 3,370 2,469 27,211 2005 2,175 8,023 11,393 2,742 29,953 2006 2,175 11,832 23,225 1,777 31,730 china germany japan mexico fiscal year net additions total net additions (reductions) total net additions total net additions total balance forward 1,649 9,202 22,029 2002 1,266 2,915 4,217 13,419 6,904 28,933 2003 1,110 4,025 (157 ) 13,262 3,173 32,106 2004 1,688 5,713 6 13,268 3,228 35,334 2005 1,837 7,550 (118 ) 13,150 3,799 39,133 2006 2,711 10,261 (565 ) 12,585 28,618 28,618 5,522 44,655 puerto rico south korea united kingdom grand total fiscal year net additions total net additions total net additions total net additions total balance forward 1,784 848 19,278 80,480 2002 320 2,104 850 1,698 942 20,220 17,095 97,575 2003 1,078 3,182 1,194 2,892 721 20,941 8,893 106,468 2004 296 3,478 17 2,909 1,026 21,967 8,957 115,425 2005 118 3,596 195 3,104 1,361 23,328 17,957 133,382 2006 178 3,774 3,104 2,204 25,532 52,277 185,659 (1) totals are as of january 31, of the years shown. (2) includes 7,581 square feet for the 118 units acquired from bompre&ccedil;o s.a. supermercados do nordeste in february 2004 and 11,017 square feet for the 139 units acquired from sonae distribui&ccedil;&atilde;o brasil s.a. in december 2005. 7 much of our growth internationally in recent years has resulted from our acquisition of existing operations in various countries. during may 2002, the company acquired its initial 6.1% stake in the seiyu, ltd. ( seiyu ), a japanese retail chain. through a series of transactions, our ownership percentage in seiyu was increased to approximately 37% at january 31, 2005. in december 2005, the company purchased an additional interest in seiyu, bringing our total ownership percentage in seiyu to 53.3%, and began consolidating seiyu as a majority-owned subsidiary. during the past two fiscal years, we acquired two retailers in brazil. in december 2005, we completed the purchase of sonae distribui&ccedil;&atilde;o brasil s.a., a retail operation in southern brazil consisting of 139 hypermarkets, supermarkets and wholesale units. in february 2004, the company completed its purchase of bompre&ccedil;o s.a. supermercados do nordeste ( bompre&ccedil;o ), a supermarket chain in northern brazil with 118 hypermarkets, supermarkets and mini-markets. in september 2005, the company acquired a 33.3% interest in carhco, a retailer with more than 360 supermarkets and other stores in costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua. in february 2006, we acquired an additional 17.7% of carhco making us the majority shareholder of that entity. following our acquisition of majority ownership, carhco name was changed to wal-mart centro america. we have provided additional information regarding the accounting treatment of the acquisitions discussed above in note 6 to the consolidated financial statements, which appear in our annual report to shareholders and are incorporated by reference herein and have been included as an exhibit to this annual report. our industry segments our retail operations serve our customers primarily through three segments. we identify those segments based on management responsibility within the united states and in total for international units. the wal-mart stores segment includes our supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets in the united states as well as walmart.com. the sam club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the united states as well as samsclub.com. the international segment consists of our operations in argentina, brazil, canada, china, germany, mexico, puerto rico, south korea, the united kingdom and, beginning in december 2005, japan. at january 31, 2006, our share of the results of our unconsolidated minority interest in carhco was not included in the international segment, but, following our february 2006 acquisition of an additional 17.7% of carhco, will be included in the international segment. you will find information concerning the financial results of our operating segments and the total assets of each of those segments in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements and in management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition. we have incorporated by reference herein our consolidated financial statements as of january 31, 2006, and for the year then ended, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, and management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition that are contained in our annual report to shareholders, portions of which are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. wal-mart stores operating segment the wal-mart stores segment had net sales of $209.9 billion, $191.8 billion and $174.2 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store or neighborhood market location accounted for as much as 1% of total company sales or net income. general. we operate wal-mart discount stores in all 50 states, supercenters in 47 states and neighborhood markets in 15 states. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 224,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 102,000 square feet. supercenters range in size from 99,000 square feet to 261,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 187,000 square feet. neighborhood markets range in size from 38,000 square feet to 56,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. customers can also access a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com. merchandise. wal-mart discount stores and the general merchandise area of supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide photo processing services. in addition, our stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise. the grocery assortment in our supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods and dry grocery. most of our discount stores carry a limited assortment of dry grocery merchandise while a number of our larger discount stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. neighborhood markets are generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, 8 pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet supplies. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the wal-mart stores segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including sam choice, great value, everstart, ol roy, puritan, equate, no boundaries, george, athletic works, durabrand, ilo, hometrends, mainstays, parent choice, ozark trail, relion and kid connection. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include faded glory, general electric, disney, mcdonald s, mary-kate and ashley, metro 7 and starter. sales in discount stores and supercenters, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: category january 31, 2006 january 31, 2005 grocery, candy and tobacco 30 % 28 % hardgoods 19 % 19 % softgoods and domestics 15 % 16 % electronics 10 % 9 % pharmaceuticals 8 % 9 % health and beauty aids 7 % 7 % sporting goods and toys 5 % 6 % stationery and books 3 % 3 % photo processing 1 % 1 % jewelry 1 % 1 % shoes 1 % 1 % 100 % 100 % operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining discount stores and neighborhood markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., seven days a week. the retail stores in our wal-mart stores segment generally maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis with the objective of maximizing sales volume and inventory turnover while minimizing expenses; however, we accept a variety of payment methods. in addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the wal-mart stores operating segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter. competition. our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national chains. our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. we also compete with other retailers for new store sites. our ability to offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet the competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: every day low prices ( edlp ) our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to pass continually internal and external cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; store within a store a program to provide accountability to assistant managers and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department performance; and store of the community a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located. 9 in addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, our high in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with an additional competitive advantage. distribution. during fiscal 2006, approximately 81% of the wal-mart stores segment purchases of merchandise were shipped from 114 distribution centers. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. wal-mart owns and operates 39 general merchandise distribution centers, 35 grocery distribution centers, seven apparel and shoes distribution centers, 12 specialty distribution centers, three import distribution centers and one distribution center that supports walmart.com. additionally, third-party operators are used in 18 distribution centers of which two are grocery distribution centers, five are specialty distribution centers and two are import distribution centers and eight support walmart.com. one of our three owned import facilities is operated by a third-party. the specialty distribution centers ship merchandise such as jewelry, tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. the 114 distribution centers are located throughout the continental united states. fourteen distribution centers are located in texas; ten in arkansas; nine in california; eight in georgia; six in indiana; five in florida; four in each of new york, ohio and pennsylvania; three in each of alabama, illinois, kentucky, missouri, north carolina, tennessee, utah and virginia; two in each of arizona, louisiana, mississippi, oklahoma, south carolina, and wisconsin; and one each in colorado, delaware, iowa, kansas, maine, michigan, maryland, nebraska, nevada, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, oregon and washington. in addition to servicing the wal-mart stores segment, some of our wal-mart distribution centers also service our sam club segment for perishable items, jewelry, tires and product returns. sam club operating segment the sam club segment had net sales of $39.8 billion, $37.1 billion and $34.5 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company sales or net income. general. we operate sam clubs in 48 states. facility sizes for sam clubs generally range between 70,000 and 190,000 square feet, with the average sam club facility being approximately 129,000 square feet. sam club provides to its members a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com. merchandise. sam club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the member mark, bakers &amp; chefs and sam club brands. generally, each sam club also carries software, electronics, jewelry, sporting goods, toys, tires, stationery and books. most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and sam cafe. additionally, a significant number of our clubs offer photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations. sales in the sam club segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: category january 31, 2006 january 31, 2005 sundries 31 % 31 % food 30 % 31 % hardgoods 23 % 23 % service businesses 11 % 9 % softgoods 5 % 6 % 100 % 100 % certain fiscal 2005 amounts in the preceding table have been reclassed to conform to current period presentation. operations. operating hours for sam clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key 10 program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam clubs are membership-only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs. additionally, sam club issues private label and discover accounts that are without recourse to the company. members include both small business owners and individual consumers. individuals who are not business owners can become advantage members. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates for $35 each. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card with a spouse card available at no additional cost. sam club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. the annual membership fee for a plus member is $100. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam club operating segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during our first fiscal quarter. competition. sam clubs compete with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors. we compete with other retailers for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2006, approximately 66% of the sam club non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam club segment dedicated distribution facilities and some of the wal-mart stores segment grocery distribution centers for perishable items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam club purchases directly to sam club locations. the principal focus of our sam club distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored inventory is minimized. crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers without extra storage. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. a combination of seven company-owned and operated distribution facilities, thirteen third-party owned and operated facilities, and two third-party owned and operated import distribution centers constitute the overall distribution structure for the sam club segment. to support the samsclub.com business, sam club uses one third-party owned and operated distribution center in texas. two of the company-owned and operated facilities are located in texas with single facilities located in arizona, arkansas, colorado, indiana and minnesota. of the third-party owned and operated facilities, two are in california and one is in each of florida, georgia, illinois, maryland, michigan, missouri, new hampshire, north carolina, ohio, pennsylvania and washington. the third-party operated import facilities are located in california and south carolina. sam club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. international operating segment our international segment is comprised of our operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, germany, puerto rico, south korea, and the united kingdom, our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in japan and mexico and our operations through joint ventures in china. wal-mart portion of the results of our unconsolidated 33.3% minority interest in the carhco were included in the company other segment at january 31, 2006. we acquired a controlling interest in carhco in february 2006, and after that date carhco will be consolidated into our international segment. carhco has retail operations in costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua. the international segment net sales for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, were $62.7 billion, $56.3 billion and $47.6 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company sales or net income. general. at january 31, 2006, our international operating formats varied by country and included: discount stores in canada and puerto rico; supercenters in argentina, brazil, china, germany, japan, mexico, puerto rico, south korea and the united kingdom; sam clubs in brazil, canada, china, mexico, and puerto rico; and neighborhood markets in china. 11 some of the more significant other formats that we operated at january 31, 2006, included: todo dia (combination discount and grocery stores), balaio (discount food and general merchandise stores), bompre&ccedil;o (supermarkets), hipermercado big (hypermarkets), mercadorama (supermarkets), nacional (supermarkets) and maxxi atacado (wholesale units) in brazil; seiyu stores (supermarkets, discount and department stores), livin stores (department stores) and sunny (supermarkets) in japan; superama (supermarkets), bodega (combination discount and grocery stores), suburbia (department stores) and vips (restaurants) in mexico; asda stores (combination grocery and apparel stores), george stores (apparel stores) and asda living stores (general merchandise stores) in the united kingdom; and, amigo supermarkets in puerto rico. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the international operating segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the united states have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. while sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. seasonal aspects of operations. the international operating segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in our fourth fiscal quarter. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the international operating segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety, specialty and wholesale sectors of the retail market in each of the countries in which we operate and, in mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the international operating segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. in our international units, our ability to operate effectively the food departments has a major impact on the segment competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 85 distribution facilities that are located in argentina, brazil, canada, china, germany, japan, mexico, puerto rico and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units of the international segment. during fiscal 2006, approximately 79% of the international operating segment purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the international operating segment purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. a combination of company-owned and operated distribution facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure for the international operating segment. the international operating segment operates export consolidation facilities in california, florida, pennsylvania and texas in support of product flow to our mexican, canadian, asian, and latin american markets. employees as of january 31, 2006, the company employed approximately 1.8 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.3 million associates in the united states and approximately 500,000 associates in foreign countries. in the united states, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including a profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards, bonuses based on company performance, discounted stock purchase program and life insurance. the company also offers health care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. after the first year, the company medical plan has no lifetime maximum for most expenses. in our operations outside the united states, the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com. additional information can be found at www.walmartfacts.com. we make copies of our annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current 12 reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports filed with or furnished to the sec available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. our sec filings, our senior financial officer code of ethics and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors. these documents, as well as our sec filings are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy from our investor relations department. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of wal-mart code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of twelve months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our wal-mart stores segment and sam club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our wal-mart stores segment and sam club segment. high levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in those countries. we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the growth in the net sales and operating net income of our wal-mart stores segment and our sam club segment depends to a substantial degree on our expansion programs. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and sam clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets or sam clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam clubs, not 13 previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in consummating the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we believe we will be ultimately able to integrate successfully any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our international segment and our future financial performance. failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs generally, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our wal-mart stores segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including edlp, rollbacks, store within a store and store of the community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods sold. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business. above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 14 risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in argentina, brazil, canada, costa rico, el salvador, germany, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico, south korea and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china. during fiscal 2006, our international operations generated 20.1% of our net sales. as a result of recent acquisitions of operations in foreign countries, we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. in addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. natural disasters and geo-political events costs could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located and attacks disrupting transportation systems, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the temporary closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the temporary lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply or products from some local and overseas suppliers, the temporary disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating and the temporary reduction in the availability of products in our stores. these factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. we expect that the significant property damage experienced by the company and others during last year hurricanes will result in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. as a result the company will likely face higher property insurance premiums, an increase in retained risk, or a combination of the two, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 15 we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our financial condition and results of operation. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our financial condition and results of operations. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the united states. the class as certified in dukes currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female associates. the plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys fees. the u.s. district court hearing this case has issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs motion for class certification. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this form 10-k and is included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk of the caption management discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition included in the annual report to shareholders for the year ended january 31, 2006. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. 2 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2007 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( wal-mart, the company or we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity. our fiscal year ends on january 31. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2007, we had net sales of $345.0 billion. our wal-mart stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 65.6% of our fiscal 2007 net sales. this segment consists of three different traditional retail formats, all of which operate in the united states, and wal-mart online retail format, walmart.com. our traditional wal-mart stores retail formats include: supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket; discount stores, which average approximately 107,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products; and neighborhood markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise. our sam club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs, which operate in the united states, and the segment online retail format, samsclub.com. sam club accounted for 12.1% of our fiscal 2007 net sales. our focus for sam club is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at members only prices for both business and personal use. our sam clubs average approximately 132,000 square feet in size. at january 31, 2007, our international segment consisted of retail operations in 12 countries and puerto rico. this segment generated 22.3% of our fiscal 2007 net sales. the international segment includes several different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and sam clubs that operate outside the united states. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. 3 the development of our company although wal-mart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened. in fiscal 1984, we opened our first three sam clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in fiscal 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand, and at january 31, 2007, we had international operations in argentina, brazil, canada, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico, and the united kingdom. we also operate through joint ventures in china. at january 31, 2007, we operated 1,075 discount stores, 2,256 supercenters, 579 sam clubs and 112 neighborhood markets in the united states. internationally, at the end of fiscal year 2007, the company operated units in argentina (13), brazil (299), canada (289), costa rica (137), el salvador (63), guatemala (132), honduras (41), japan (392), mexico (889), nicaragua (40), puerto rico (54), and the united kingdom (335). we also operated 73 stores through joint ventures in china at january 31, 2007. in october 2006, we disposed of our south korean and german operations. the following tables provide summary information regarding the numbers, additions and square footage of our discount stores, supercenters, neighborhood markets and sam clubs in the united states, and the numbers and square footage of our units in our international markets for each of our fiscal years from fiscal 2003 through fiscal 2007. wal-mart stores segment store count and square footage (1) fiscal years ended january 31, 2003 through 2007 wal-mart discount stores wal-mart supercenters fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square footage opened (2) total square footage balance forward 1,647 157,686 1,066 197,442 2003 43 122 1,568 151,913 192 1,258 234,611 2004 41 1 130 1,478 145,065 213 1,471 275,067 2005 36 2 159 1,353 135,481 242 1,713 320,056 2006 24 2 166 1,209 123,607 267 1,980 370,711 2007 15 2 147 1,075 114,507 276 2,256 421,211 neighborhood markets total wal-mart stores segment fiscal year opened total square footage opened (3) closed total square footage balance forward 31 1,418 2,744 356,546 2003 18 49 2,161 131 2,875 388,685 2004 15 64 2,778 139 1 3,013 422,910 2005 21 85 3,621 140 2 3,151 459,158 2006 15 100 4,218 140 2 3,289 498,536 2007 12 112 4,672 156 2 3,443 540,390 (1) amounts are as of january 31, of the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. (2) includes conversions and relocations of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions and relocations of discount stores to supercenters. 4 sam club segment club count and square footage fiscal years ended january 31, 2003 through 2007(1) fiscal year opened closed total square footage balance forward 500 61,779 2003 25 525 65,747 2004 13 538 68,144 2005 13 551 70,677 2006 17 1 567 73,391 2007 15 3 579 76,270 (1) amounts are as of january 31, of the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. the number of discount stores, supercenters, neighborhood markets and sam clubs located in each state in the united states at january 31, 2007 is disclosed in our annual report to shareholders under the caption fiscal 2007 end-of-year store count and is incorporated herein by reference. portions of such annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. 5 international segment unit count and square footage (1) fiscal years ended january 31, 2003 through 2007 argentina brazil (2) canada unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 11 2,175 22 3,143 196 22,968 2003 11 2,175 22 3,143 213 24,742 2004 11 2,175 25 3,370 235 27,211 2005 11 2,175 149 11,393 262 29,953 2006 11 2,175 295 23,225 278 31,730 2007 13 2,427 299 23,789 289 33,591 china central america japan (3) unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 19 2,915 2003 26 4,025 2004 34 5,713 2005 43 7,550 2006 56 10,261 398 28,618 2007 73 13,583 413 7,128 392 28,780 mexico puerto rico united kingdom unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 535 28,933 17 2,104 250 20,220 2003 581 32,106 52 3,182 258 20,941 2004 623 35,334 53 3,478 267 21,967 2005 679 39,133 54 3,596 282 23,328 2006 774 44,655 54 3,774 315 25,532 2007 889 50,401 54 3,829 335 26,800 total international segment unit count (4) square footage balance forward 1,050 82,458 2003 1,163 90,314 2004 1,248 99,248 2005 1,480 117,128 2006 2,181 169,970 2007 2,757 190,328 (1) unit counts are as of december 31, of the years shown for all countries except canada and puerto rico, which are as of january 31. square footage is reported in thousands. (2) brazil includes 118 units acquired from bompre&ccedil;o s.a. supermercados do nordeste in february 2004 and 139 units acquired from sonae distribui&ccedil;&atilde;o brasil s.a. in december 2005. (3) excludes 45 wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. (4) further information regarding our international operating formats by market can be found under the caption international segment below. 6 our industry segments our retail operations serve our customers primarily through three segments. we identify those segments based on management responsibility within the united states and in total for international units. the wal-mart stores segment includes our supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets in the united states as well as walmart.com. the sam club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the united states as well as samsclub.com. the international segment consists of our operations in argentina, brazil, canada, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom. you will find information concerning the financial results of our operating segments in the united states and internationally and the total and long-lived assets of each of those segments in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we have incorporated by reference herein our consolidated financial statements as of january 31, 2007, and for the year then ended, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that are contained in our annual report to shareholders, portions of which are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. wal-mart stores segment the wal-mart stores segment had net sales of $226.3 billion, $209.9 billion and $191.8 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2007, 2006, and 2005, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store or neighborhood market location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales or net income. general. the wal-mart stores segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters in 47 states and neighborhood markets in 15 states. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 224,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 107,000 square feet. supercenters range in size from 98,000 square feet to 246,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 187,000 square feet. neighborhood markets range in size from 38,000 square feet to 55,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. customers also can access a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . merchandise. wal-mart discount stores and the general merchandise area of supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cellular phones and cellular service plan contracts, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide photo processing services. in addition, our stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise. the wal-mart stores segment also offers financial services and products, including money order sales, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. the grocery assortment in our supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery. most of our discount stores carry a limited assortment of dry grocery merchandise, while a number of our larger discount stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. neighborhood markets are generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet supplies. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the wal-mart stores segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including sam choice, great value, everstart, ol roy, puritan, equate, no boundaries, george, athletic works, durabrand, ilo, hometrends, mainstays, metro 7, parent choice, ozark trail, relion, white stag and kid connection. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include general electric, disney, mcdonald s, mary-kate and ashley, and starter. 7 sales in discount stores and supercenters, by product category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: category january 31, 2007 january 31, 2006 grocery, candy and tobacco 31 % 30 % hardgoods 18 % 19 % softgoods and domestics 15 % 15 % electronics 10 % 10 % pharmaceuticals 9 % 8 % health and beauty aids 7 % 7 % sporting goods and toys 5 % 5 % stationery and books 2 % 3 % photo processing 1 % 1 % jewelry 1 % 1 % shoes 1 % 1 % 100 % 100 % operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. the retail stores in our wal-mart stores segment generally maintain uniform prices, except where lower prices are necessary to meet local competition. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards and a private-label store credit card through a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the wal-mart stores segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. we also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog business and with other retailers for new store sites. our ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: every day low prices ( edlp ) our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change erratically under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to pass continually internal and external cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; store within a store a program to provide accountability to assistant managers and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department performance; and store of the community a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located. in addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with additional competitive advantages. distribution. during fiscal 2007, approximately 80% of the wal-mart stores segment purchases of merchandise were shipped from 121 distribution centers. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. wal-mart owns and operates 40 general merchandise distribution centers, 38 grocery distribution centers, seven apparel and 8 shoes distribution centers, 12 professional services and specialty distribution centers, two import distribution centers and three distribution centers that support walmart.com. additionally, third-party operators are used in 19 distribution centers of which two are grocery distribution centers, five are specialty distribution centers, four are import distribution centers and eight support walmart.com. the professional services distribution centers ship merchandise such as jewelry, tires, optical, product returns, and pharmaceuticals. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. the 121 distribution centers are located throughout the continental united states. fourteen distribution centers are located in texas; eleven in arkansas; nine in california; eight in georgia; six in indiana; five in each of florida, illinois, new york, and pennsylvania; four in each of ohio and virginia; three in each of alabama, kentucky, missouri, north carolina, tennessee, and utah; two in each of arizona, louisiana, mississippi, nevada, oklahoma, south carolina, and wisconsin; and one each in colorado, delaware, iowa, kansas, maryland, maine, michigan, nebraska, new hampshire, new jersey, new mexico, oregon and washington. in addition to servicing the wal-mart stores segment, some of our wal-mart distribution centers also service our sam club segment for perishable items, jewelry, tires and product returns. sam club segment the sam club segment had net sales of $41.6 billion, $39.8 billion and $37.1 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales or net income. general. we operate sam clubs in 48 states. facility sizes for sam clubs generally range between 72,000 and 190,000 square feet, with the average sam club facility being approximately 132,000 square feet. sam club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . merchandise. sam club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the member mark, bakers &amp; chefs and sam club brands. generally, each sam club also carries software, electronics, jewelry, exercise equipment, outdoor goods, tires, office supplies and books. most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and sam cafe. additionally, a significant number of our clubs offer photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations. sales in the sam club segment, which are subject to seasonal variance, by product category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: category january 31, 2007 january 31, 2006 sundries 32 % 31 % food 29 % 30 % hardgoods 23 % 23 % service businesses 11 % 11 % softgoods 5 % 5 % 100 % 100 % operations. operating hours for sam clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 11:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam clubs are membership-only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including mastercard beginning in fiscal 2007. additionally, sam club markets private label and discover accounts that are without recourse to the company. members include both small business owners and individual consumers. individuals who are not business owners can become advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business account for $35 each. businesses can also purchase advantage memberships for their employees under a group membership program. group rates are $30 per group advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. sam's club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits 9 and services. the annual fee for a primary plus member (business or advantage) is $100. in addition, business plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates (add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam club segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. sam club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. we compete with other retailers for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2007, approximately 65% of the sam club non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam club segment dedicated distribution facilities and some of the wal-mart stores segment distribution centers for perishable items, jewelry, tires and product returns. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam club purchases directly to sam club locations. the principal focus of our sam club distribution operations is on crossdocking product, while stored inventory is minimized. crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers without extra storage. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. a combination of seven company-owned and operated distribution facilities, 13 third-party owned and operated facilities, and two third-party owned and operated import distribution centers constitute the overall distribution structure for the sam club segment. to support the samsclub.com business, sam club uses one third-party owned and operated distribution center in texas. two of the company-owned and operated facilities are located in texas with single facilities located in arizona, arkansas, colorado, indiana and minnesota. of the third-party owned and operated facilities, two are in california and one is in each of florida, georgia, illinois, maryland, michigan, missouri, new hampshire, north carolina, ohio, pennsylvania and washington. the third-party operated import facilities are located in california and south carolina. sam club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. international segment our international segment is comprised of our operations through wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, puerto rico, and the united kingdom, our operations through majority-owned subsidiaries in central america, japan and mexico and our operations through joint ventures in china. the international segment net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, were $77.1 billion, $59.2 billion and $52.5 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales or net income. general. at january 31, 2007, our international operating formats varied by market and included: argentina - 13 supercenters brazil - 26 supercenters, 19 sam clubs, 66 hypermarkets (hiper bompre&ccedil;o, big), 157 supermarkets (bompre&ccedil;o, mercadorama, nacional), 11 cash-n-carry stores (maxxi alacado), 15 combination discount and grocery stores (todo dia), 3 general merchandise stores (magazine) and 2 discount stores (mini bompre&ccedil;o) canada - 7 supercenters, 276 discount stores and 6 sam clubs china - 68 supercenters, 2 neighborhood markets and 3 sam clubs costa rica - 4 hypermarkets (hiper mas), 23 supermarkets (m&aacute;s por menos), 8 warehouse stores (maxi bodega) and 102 discount stores (pali) el salvador - 2 hypermarkets (hiper paiz), 32 supermarkets (la despensa de don juan) and 29 discount stores (despensa familiar) guatemala - 6 hypermarkets (hiper paiz), 28 supermarkets (paiz), 8 warehouse stores (maxi bodega), 2 membership clubs (club co) and 88 discount stores (despensa familiar) honduras - 1 hypermarket (hiper paiz), 6 supermarkets (paiz), 5 warehouse stores (maxi bodega) and 29 discount stores (despensa familiar) japan - 97 hypermarkets (livin, seiyu), 293 supermarkets (seiyu, sunny) and 2 general merchandise stores (seiyu) mexico - 118 supercenters, 77 sam clubs, 100 supermarkets (superama, mi bodega), 219 combination discount and grocery stores (bodega), 61 department stores (suburbia), 312 restaurants and 2 discount stores (mi bodega express) nicaragua - 5 supermarkets (la uni&oacute;n) and 35 discount stores (pali) puerto rico - 6 supercenters, 8 discount stores, 9 sam clubs and 31 supermarkets (amigo) united kingdom - 23 supercenters (asda), 291 supermarkets (asda), 7 general merchandise stores (asda living), 12 apparel stores (george) and 2 discount stores (asda essentials) 10 merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, several store brands not found in the united states have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. while sales are primarily on a cash-and-carry basis, credit cards or other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. seasonal aspects of operations. the international segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the international segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety, specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate and, in mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the international segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. in our international units, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 126 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units of the international segment. during fiscal 2007, approximately 78% of the international segment purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the international segment purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. a combination of company-owned and operated distribution facilities and third-party facilities makes up the overall distribution structure for the international segment. the international segment operates export consolidation facilities in california, florida and texas in support of product flow to our mexican, asian, and central and south american markets. additionally, a wal-mart stores segment distribution center in pennsylvania exports products to our operations in canada. employees as of january 31, 2007, the company employed approximately 1.9 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.36 million associates in the united states and approximately 550,000 associates in foreign countries. like almost all retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. in the united states, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including a profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards, bonuses based on company performance, discounted stock purchase program and life insurance. the company also offers health care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. after the first year, the company medical plan has no lifetime maximum for most expenses. in our operations outside the united states, the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is http://www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our senior financial officer code of ethics and our statement of ethics can be found 11 on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors . these documents, as well as our sec filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of wal-mart code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. information regarding certain financial measures relating to our operating segments and the net sales from our operations in the united states and outside of the united states and our long-lived assets located in and outside the united states are included in our annual report to shareholders under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. portions of our annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our wal-mart stores segment and sam club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our wal-mart stores segment and sam club segment. high levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our international segment. we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and sam clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets or sam clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 12 impediments to the expansion of our international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our international segment and our future financial performance. failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our wal-mart stores segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including edlp, rollbacks, store within a store and store of the community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business. above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to 13 merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in argentina, brazil, canada, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china. during fiscal 2007, our international operations generated 22.3% of our net sales. as a result of recent acquisitions of operations in foreign countries, we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years despite the recent dispositions of our operations in germany and south korea. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. in addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. natural disasters and geo-political events costs could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks disrupting transportation and utility systems, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating and the reduction in the availability of products in our stores. these factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. 14 the significant property damage experienced by the company and others resulting from the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. the insurance coverage offered to the company for named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more limited and carried higher premiums. as a result the company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses that may result from named windstorms. named windstorm activity was minimal in fiscal 2007, and the company did not incur any significant losses this past hurricane season. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the united states. the class as certified in dukes currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female associates. the plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys fees. the u.s. district court hearing this case has issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs motion for class certification, which we have appealed. recently, a divided three-judge panel of the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit upheld the district court ruling, and we are now asking that the ruling be reconsidered by a larger panel of that court of appeals. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and is included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. if we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk of the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in the annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 2 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2008 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( wal-mart, the company or we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our fiscal year ends on january 31. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2008, we had net sales of $374.5 billion. our operations comprise three business segments: wal-mart stores, sam club and international. our wal-mart stores segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 64.0% of our fiscal 2008 net sales and operates stores in three different formats in the united states, as well as wal-mart online retail operations, walmart.com. our wal-mart stores retail formats include: supercenters, which average approximately 187,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a full-line supermarket; discount stores, which average approximately 108,000 square feet in size and offer a wide assortment of general merchandise and a limited variety of food products; and neighborhood markets, which average approximately 42,000 square feet in size and offer a full-line supermarket and a limited assortment of general merchandise. our sam club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the united states and the segment online retail operations, samsclub.com. sam club accounted for 11.8% of our fiscal 2008 net sales. our focus for sam club is to provide exceptional value on brand-name merchandise at members only prices for both business and personal use. our sam clubs average approximately 132,000 square feet in size. at january 31, 2008, our international segment consisted of retail operations in 12 countries and puerto rico. this segment generated 24.2% of our fiscal 2008 net sales. the international segment includes numerous different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and sam clubs that operate outside the united states. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although wal-mart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in fiscal 1984, we opened our first three sam clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in fiscal 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand, and at january 31, 2008, we had international operations in argentina, brazil, canada, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico, and the united kingdom. we also operate through joint ventures in china and new planned operations through a joint venture in india in fiscal 2009. 3 at january 31, 2008, we operated 971 discount stores, 2,447 supercenters, 132 neighborhood markets and 591 sam clubs in the united states. internationally, at the end of fiscal year 2008, the company operated units in argentina (21), brazil (313), canada (305), costa rica (149), el salvador (70), guatemala (145), honduras (47), japan (394), mexico (1,023), nicaragua (46), puerto rico (54), and the united kingdom (352). we also operated 202 stores in china through a combination of joint ventures and minority-owned subsidiaries at january 31, 2008. the following tables provide summary information regarding the numbers, additions and square footage of our discount stores, supercenters, neighborhood markets and sam clubs in the united states, and the numbers and square footage of our units in our international markets for each of our fiscal years from fiscal 2004 through fiscal 2008. wal-mart stores segment store count and square footage (1) fiscal years ended january 31, 2004 through 2008 wal-mart discount stores wal-mart supercenters fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square footage opened (2) closed total square footage balance forward 1,568 151,913 1,258 234,611 2004 41 1 130 1,478 145,065 213 1,471 275,067 2005 36 2 159 1,353 135,481 242 1,713 320,056 2006 24 2 166 1,209 123,607 267 1,980 370,711 2007 15 2 147 1,075 114,507 279 3 2,256 421,211 2008 7 2 109 971 104,561 191 2,447 456,516 wal-mart neighborhood markets total wal-mart stores segment fiscal year opened closed total square footage opened (3) closed total square footage balance forward 49 2,161 2,875 388,685 2004 15 64 2,778 139 1 3,013 422,910 2005 21 85 3,621 140 2 3,151 459,158 2006 15 100 4,218 140 2 3,289 498,536 2007 12 112 4,672 159 5 3,443 540,390 2008 20 132 5,552 109 2 3,550 566,629 (1) total and square footage columns are as of january 31, of the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. (2) includes expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. 4 sam club segment club count and square footage fiscal years ended january 31, 2004 through 2008 (1) fiscal year opened closed total square footage balance forward 525 65,747 2004 13 538 68,144 2005 13 551 70,677 2006 17 1 567 73,391 2007 15 3 579 76,270 2008 12 591 78,236 (1) total and square footage columns are as of january 31, of the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. the number of discount stores, supercenters, neighborhood markets and sam clubs located in each state in the united states at january 31, 2008 is disclosed in our annual report to shareholders under the caption fiscal 2008 end-of-year store count and is incorporated herein by reference. portions of such annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. international segment (5) unit count and square footage (1) fiscal years ended january 31, 2004 through 2008 argentina brazil (2) canada china (3) central america fiscal year unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 11 2,175 22 3,143 213 24,742 26 4,025 2004 11 2,175 25 3,370 235 27,211 34 5,713 2005 11 2,175 149 11,393 262 29,953 43 7,550 2006 11 2,175 295 23,225 278 31,730 56 10,261 2007 13 2,427 299 23,789 289 33,591 73 13,583 413 7,128 2008 21 3,789 313 24,958 305 36,590 202 36,391 457 7,822 japan (4) mexico puerto rico united kingdom total international fiscal year unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 581 32,106 52 3,182 258 20,941 1,163 90,314 2004 623 35,334 53 3,478 267 21,967 1,248 99,248 2005 679 39,133 54 3,596 282 23,328 1,480 117,128 2006 398 28,618 774 44,655 54 3,774 315 25,532 2,181 169,970 2007 392 28,780 889 50,401 54 3,829 335 26,800 2,757 190,328 2008 394 26,425 1,023 56,804 54 3,829 352 27,868 3,121 224,476 (1) square footage is reported in thousands. excludes units and square footage for our operations in germany and south korea, which we disposed of in october 2006. (2) brazil includes 118 units acquired from bompre&ccedil;o s.a. supermercados do nordeste in february 2004 and 139 units acquired from sonae distribui&ccedil;&atilde;o brasil s.a. in december 2005. (3) includes units of bounteous company ltd. ( bcl ). bcl operates 101 hypermarkets in 34 cities in china under the trust-mart banner. (4) excludes 52 wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. (5) further information regarding our international operating formats by market can be found under the caption international segment below. 5 our business segments our retail operations serve our customers through three segments. the wal-mart stores segment includes our supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets in the united states as well as walmart.com. the sam club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the united states as well as samsclub.com. the international segment consists of our operations in argentina, brazil, canada, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom. you will find information concerning the financial results of our segments and the total and long-lived assets of each of those segments in note 11 to the consolidated financial statements and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations. we have incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k our consolidated financial statements as of january 31, 2008, and for the year then ended, the notes to the consolidated financial statements, and management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations that are contained in our annual report to shareholders, portions of which are included as an exhibit hereto. wal-mart stores segment the wal-mart stores segment had net sales of $239.5 billion, $226.3 billion and $209.9 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store or neighborhood market location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the wal-mart stores segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, with discount stores in 47 states, supercenters in 48 states and neighborhood markets in 15 states. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 224,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 108,000 square feet. supercenters range in size from 98,000 square feet to 246,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 187,000 square feet. neighborhood markets range in size from 37,000 square feet to 56,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . merchandise. wal-mart discount stores and the general merchandise area of supercenters carry apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, domestics, fabrics and notions, stationery and books, shoes, housewares, hardware, electronics, home furnishings, small appliances, automotive accessories, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, toys, pet food and pet accessories, cellular phones and cellular service plan contracts, cameras and supplies, health and beauty aids, pharmaceuticals, jewelry and optical and provide photo processing services. in addition, our stores offer an assortment of grocery merchandise. the grocery assortment in our supercenters consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery. most of our discount stores carry a limited assortment of dry grocery merchandise, while a number of our larger discount stores in some markets carry a broader assortment of grocery items, including perishable items. neighborhood markets are generally organized into departments such as: dry grocery, meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral, pharmaceuticals, photo processing, health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods, general merchandise and pet supplies. the wal-mart stores segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the wal-mart stores segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including sam choice, great value, everstart, ol roy, puritan, equate, no boundaries, george, athletic works, durabrand, hometrends, mainstays, metro 7, parent choice, ozark trail, relion, white stag, sand n sun, canopy and kid connection. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include general electric, disney, mcdonald s, mary-kate and ashley, better homes &amp; gardens and starter. 6 sales for the wal-mart stores segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: category january 31, 2008 january 31, 2007 grocery 41 % 39 % health &amp; beauty aids 6 % 6 % health &amp; wellness 9 % 9 % apparel, shoes &amp; jewelry 12 % 13 % home 6 % 6 % entertainment, electronics &amp; toys 14 % 14 % seasonal &amp; hardlines 12 % 13 % total 100 % 100 % operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and a private-label store credit card through a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the wal-mart stores segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. our discount stores compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. we also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites. our ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: every day low prices ( edlp ) our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so that our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; store within a store a program to provide accountability to assistant managers and department managers as to merchandise planning and overall department performance; and store of the community a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located. in addition to these programs, we believe our broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, our in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need, and our long operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience provide us with additional competitive advantages. distribution. during fiscal 2008, approximately 81% of the wal-mart stores segment purchases of merchandise were shipped through distribution centers. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. during fiscal 2008, the company opened two general merchandise distribution centers and two grocery distribution centers and closed two tire distribution centers. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our wal-mart stores segment operations are supported by 121 distribution facilities as of january 31, 2008, located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 121 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 106. 7 third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. in addition to servicing the wal-mart stores segment, some of our wal-mart distribution centers also service our sam club segment for certain items. sam club segment the sam club segment had net sales of $44.4 billion, $41.6 billion and $39.8 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a membership club warehouse, we operate sam clubs in 48 states. facility sizes for sam clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with the average sam club facility being approximately 132,000 square feet. sam club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . merchandise. sam club offers bulk displays of brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods, institutional-size grocery items, and selected private-label items under the member mark, bakers &amp; chefs and sam club brands. generally, each sam club also carries software, electronics, jewelry, exercise equipment, outdoor goods, tires, office supplies and books. most clubs have fresh departments, which include bakery, meat, produce, floral and sam cafe. additionally, a significant number of our clubs offer photo processing, pharmaceuticals, optical departments and gasoline stations. sales for the sam club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: category january 31, 2008 january 31, 2007 sundries 37 % 36 % food 28 % 29 % hardgoods 18 % 19 % service businesses, including fuel 12 % 11 % softgoods 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % operations. operating hours for sam clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:30 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam clubs are membership-only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including debit cards, some types of credit cards, and a private label and co-branded discover credit cards through a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy departments accept payments for prescription drugs through our customers health benefit plans. members include both small business owners and individual consumers. individuals who are not business owners can become advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates (add-ons) to their business account for $35 each. businesses can also purchase advantage memberships for their employees under a group membership program. group rates are $30 per group advantage membership when purchasing 50 - 999 memberships and $25 per group advantage membership when purchasing 1,000 or more memberships. sam club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. the annual fee for a primary plus member (business or advantage) is $100. in addition, business plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates (add-ons) to their business membership for $35 each. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam club segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. sam club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. we compete with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of small business members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. 8 distribution. during fiscal 2008, approximately 65% of the sam club segment non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam club segment dedicated distribution facilities and some of the wal-mart stores segment distribution centers for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam club purchases directly to sam club locations. our sam club segment operations are supported by 24 distribution facilities as of january 31, 2008, located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 24 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 7. third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities. the principal focus of our sam club distribution operations is on crossdocking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. sam club uses a combination of our private truck fleet as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. international segment our international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, puerto rico and the united kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in central america, japan and mexico, our joint ventures in india and china and our minority-owned subsidiaries in china. the international segment net sales from continuing operations for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, were $90.6 billion, $77.1 billion and $59.2 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. at january 31, 2008, our international operating formats varied by market and included: argentina - 20 supercenters and 1 combination discount and grocery store (changomas) brazil - 29 supercenters, 21 sam clubs, 70 hypermarkets (hiper bompre&ccedil;o, big), 158 supermarkets (bompre&ccedil;o, mercadorama, nacional), 13 cash-n-carry stores (maxxi alacado), 21 combination discount and grocery stores (todo dia) and 1 general merchandise store (magazine) canada - 31 supercenters, 268 discount stores and 6 sam clubs china - 96 supercenters, 2 neighborhood markets, 3 sam clubs and 101 hypermarkets (trust-mart) costa rica - 6 hypermarkets (hiper mas), 23 supermarkets (m&aacute;s por menos), 9 warehouse stores (maxi bodega) and 111 discount stores (pali) el salvador - 2 hypermarkets (hiper paiz), 32 supermarkets (la despensa de don juan) and 36 discount stores (despensa familiar) guatemala - 6 hypermarkets (hiper paiz), 28 supermarkets (paiz), 12 warehouse stores (maxi bodega), 2 membership clubs (club co) and 97 discount stores (despensa familiar) honduras - 1 hypermarket (hiper paiz), 7 supermarkets (paiz), 7 warehouse stores (maxi bodega) and 32 discount stores (despensa familiar) japan - 114 hypermarkets (livin, seiyu), 276 supermarkets (seiyu, sunny) and 4 general merchandise stores (seiyu) mexico - 136 supercenters, 83 sam clubs, 129 supermarkets (superama, mi bodega), 246 combination discount and grocery stores (bodega), 76 department stores (suburbia), 349 restaurants and 4 discount stores (mi bodega express) nicaragua - 6 supermarkets (la uni&oacute;n) and 40 discount stores (pali) puerto rico - 6 supercenters, 8 discount stores, 9 sam clubs and 31 supermarkets (amigo) united kingdom - 29 supercenters (asda), 298 supermarkets (asda, asda small town), 13 general merchandise stores (asda living) and 12 apparel stores (george). we plan to close the george stores in fiscal 2009. in august 2007, the company announced an agreement between wal-mart and bharti enterprises, an indian company, to establish a joint venture called bharti wal-mart private limited to conduct wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations in india, in compliance with government of india guidelines. the first wholesale facility is targeted to open in late fiscal 2009. the joint venture was formed to establish wholesale warehouse facilities to serve retailers and business owners by selling them merchandise at wholesale prices, including bharti retail, a wholly-owned subsidiary of bharti enterprises, that is developing a chain of retail stores in india. in addition, bharti retail has entered into a franchise agreement with an indian subsidiary of wal-mart under which it will provide technical support to its retail business. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for 9 a majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the united states have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards through third-party providers. other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the international segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global procurement practices. in addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries. seasonal aspects of operations. the international segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, the highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the international segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety, specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate and, in mexico, with local, national and international restaurant chains. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the international segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. in our international units, our ability to effectively operate the food departments has a major impact on the segment competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 143 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom and two export consolidation facilities in the united states. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic product to the operating units of the international segment. during fiscal 2008, approximately 70% of the international segment purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the international segment purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 143 distribution facilities, we owned 38 and leased 68. third parties owned and operated the remaining 37 distribution facilities. employees. as of january 31, 2008, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.42 million associates in the united states and approximately 635,000 associates internationally. like almost all retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. in the united states, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the wal-mart profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards or sam club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the associate stock purchase program, and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. the company medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. in our operations outside the united states, the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. our web site and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate web site is located at www.walmartstores.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate web site free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that web site is http://www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our senior financial officer code of ethics and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our web site at www.walmartstores.com/investors . these documents, as well as our sec filings, are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of wal-mart code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our web site at www.walmartstores.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our web site for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. 10 certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. portions of our annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the united states and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, higher levels of unemployment, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our wal-mart stores segment and sam club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect the operations and operating results of our wal-mart stores segment and sam club segment. these factors affect not only our operations, but also the operations of suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, changes in tax and other laws, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the united states. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our international segment. we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and sam clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets or sam clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. 11 impediments to the expansion of our international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our international segment and our future financial performance. failure to attract and retain qualified associates and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and changes in employment legislation. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel or if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly, our financial performance could be affected adversely. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our wal-mart stores segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including edlp, rollbacks, store within a store and store of the community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. 12 risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in argentina, brazil, canada, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico, and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china. during fiscal 2008, our international operations generated 24.2% of our net sales. as a result of recent acquisitions of operations in foreign countries, we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years despite the recent dispositions of our operations in germany and south korea. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. in addition, foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having major facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes and earthquakes, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks disrupting transportation and utility systems, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores and disruption in our communications with our stores. these factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. the significant property damage experienced by the company and others resulting from the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. the insurance coverage offered to the company for named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to us. as a result the company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses that may result from named windstorms. 13 named windstorm activity was minimal in fiscal 2008, and the company did not incur any significant losses this past hurricane season. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the united states. the class as certified in dukes currently includes approximately 1.6 million present and former female associates. the plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys fees. on june 4, 2004, the u.s. district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs motion for class certification, which we have appealed. on february 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit upheld the district court ruling. on february 20, 2007, the company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the court of appeals. on november 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of february 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. as a result, the company petition for rehearing en banc was denied as moot. on january 8, 2008, the company filed a new petition for rehearing en banc. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 8 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders which is incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and is included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. if we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize that cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. 14 we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk of the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in the annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors. in addition, from time to time we may disclose additional risk factors in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized 2 or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2010 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( walmart, the company or we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our fiscal year ends on january 31 for our u.s., canada and puerto rico operations. our fiscal year ends on december 31 for all other operations. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2010, we had net sales of $405.0 billion. our operations comprise three business segments: walmart u.s., international and sam club. our walmart u.s. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 63.8% of our fiscal 2010 net sales and operates retail stores in different formats in the united states, as well as walmart online retail operations, walmart.com. our international segment consists of retail operations in 14 countries and puerto rico. this segment generated 24.7% of our fiscal 2010 net sales. the international segment includes numerous different formats of retail stores and restaurants, including discount stores, supercenters and sam clubs that operate outside the united states. our sam club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the united states and the segment online retail operations, samsclub.com. sam club accounted for 11.5% of our fiscal 2010 net sales. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in fiscal 1984, we opened our first three sam clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in fiscal 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in fiscal 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. at january 31, 2010, our international segment was comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, japan, puerto rico and the united kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five countries in central america, and in chile and mexico, our joint ventures in india and china and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. as of the end of fiscal 2010, we operated 803 discount stores, 2,747 supercenters, 158 neighborhood markets and 596 sam clubs in the united states. our international segment operated units in argentina (43), brazil (434), canada (317), chile (252), costa rica (170), el salvador (77), guatemala (164), honduras (53), india (1), japan (371), mexico (1,469), nicaragua (55), puerto rico (56) and the united kingdom (371) at the end of fiscal 2010. we also operated 279 stores in china through a combination of joint ventures and other controlled subsidiaries at the end of fiscal 2010. as of the end of fiscal 2010, our indian business consisted of wholesale cash-and-carry and back-end supply chain management operations through our joint venture with bharti enterprises and technical support to the retail stores of bharti retail through a franchise agreement. 4 our business segments the company is engaged in the operations of retail stores located in all 50 states of the united states, our wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, japan, puerto rico and the united kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries in central america, chile and mexico and our joint ventures in india and china and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. the company defines our segments as those business units whose operating results our chief operating decision maker ( codm ) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the walmart u.s. segment includes the company mass merchant concept in the united states operating under the walmart or wal-mart brand, as well as walmart.com. the international segment consists of the company operations outside of the 50 united states. the sam club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the united states, as well as samsclub.com. the company measures the results of its segments using each segment operating income which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when we do so, the segment operating income for each segment affected by the revisions is restated for all periods presented to maintain comparability. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $258.2 billion, $255.3 billion and $238.9 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single discount store, supercenter or neighborhood market location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states, with supercenters in 48 states, discount stores in 47 states and neighborhood markets in 16 states. supercenters range in size from 80,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 185,000 square feet. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 108,000 square feet. neighborhood markets range in size from 14,000 square feet to 62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 42,000 square feet. from time to time, walmart u.s. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . walmart u.s. segment store count and square footage (1) walmart u.s. supercenters walmart u.s. discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square footage opened closed conversions (2) total square footage balance forward 1,713 320,056 1,353 135,481 2006 101 166 1,980 370,711 24 (2 ) (166 ) 1,209 123,607 2007 132 (3 ) 147 2,256 421,211 15 (2 ) (147 ) 1,075 114,507 2008 82 109 2,447 456,516 7 (2 ) (109 ) 971 104,561 2009 87 78 2,612 486,625 2 (4 ) (78 ) 891 96,304 2010 49 86 2,747 509,475 (2 ) (86 ) 803 86,869 walmart u.s. neighborhood markets total walmart u.s. segment fiscal year opened closed total square footage opened (3) closed total square footage balance forward 85 3,621 3,151 459,158 2006 15 100 4,218 140 (2 ) 3,289 498,536 2007 12 112 4,672 159 (5 ) 3,443 540,390 2008 20 132 5,552 109 (2 ) 3,550 566,629 2009 23 (2 ) 153 6,370 112 (6 ) 3,656 589,299 2010 5 158 6,564 54 (2 ) 3,708 602,908 (1) total and square footage columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. (2) includes expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. 5 merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and neighborhood markets. grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service; hardlines consist of fabrics and crafts, stationery and books, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, horticulture and accessories, sporting goods, outdoor entertaining and seasonal merchandise; apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes and jewelry; health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services; and home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances. the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including great value, equate, ol roy, spring valley, parent choice, marketside, oak leaf, prima della, everstart, faded glory, no boundaries, george, athletic works, secret treasures, puritan, hometrends, mainstays, ozark trail, white stag and canopy. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include general electric, black &amp; decker, rival, disney, better homes &amp; gardens, op, starter, danskin now and just my size. sales for the walmart u.s. segment by strategic merchandise unit were as follows during the fiscal year ended: january 31, strategic merchandise units 2010 2009 grocery 51 % 49 % entertainment 13 % 13 % hardlines 11 % 12 % apparel 10 % 11 % health and wellness 10 % 10 % home 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards, ebt cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through paypal. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. our discount stores and neighborhood markets compete with other discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. we also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites. our ability to develop the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; 6 rollbacks our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; store of the community a program to ensure that the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; clean, fast and friendly our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment; win, play and show a strategy to select a merchandise assortment based on our growth potential, economies of scale and customer credibility in each business; save even more a strategy to meet or be below a competitor advertised price on key value items; and project impact a program to clarify merchandise offerings, improve customer experience, and increase productivity. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that provide confidence to our customers that we will have what they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. we believe these factors provide us with additional competitive advantages. distribution. during fiscal 2010, approximately 79% of the walmart u.s. segment purchases of merchandise were shipped to the segment stores through our distribution centers. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our walmart u.s. segment operations are supported by 120 distribution facilities as of january 31, 2010, located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 120 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. third parties owned and operated the remaining 15 distribution facilities. during fiscal 2010, the company opened a third-party return center and dot com facility; one owned return center and two third-party facilities were closed. in addition to servicing the walmart u.s. segment, some of our walmart distribution centers also service our sam club segment for certain items. international segment the international segment net sales for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, were $100.1 billion, $98.8 billion and $90.6 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. our international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, japan, puerto rico and the united kingdom, our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in five countries in central america, and in chile and mexico, our joint ventures in india and china and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. international segment unit count and square footage (1) (in thousands) argentina brazil canada central america chile china fiscal year unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 11 2,175 149 11,393 262 29,953 43 7,550 2006 11 2,175 295 23,225 278 31,730 56 10,261 2007 13 2,427 299 23,789 289 33,591 413 7,128 73 13,583 2008 21 3,789 313 24,958 305 36,590 457 7,822 202 36,391 2009 28 4,301 349 26,594 318 39,501 502 8,277 197 9,564 225 39,973 2010 43 5,185 434 28,695 317 40,225 519 8,441 252 10,437 279 49,401 japan (2) india mexico puerto rico united kingdom total international fiscal year unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage unit count square footage balance forward 679 39,133 54 3,596 282 23,328 1,480 117,128 2006 375 26,725 774 44,655 54 3,774 315 25,532 2,158 168,077 2007 369 26,887 889 50,401 54 3,829 335 26,800 2,734 188,435 2008 371 24,532 1,023 56,804 54 3,829 352 27,868 3,098 222,583 2009 371 24,478 1,201 63,067 56 4,037 358 29,011 3,605 248,803 2010 371 24,258 1 50 1,469 69,067 56 4,082 371 30,053 4,112 269,894 (1) international unit counts, with the exception of canada and puerto rico, are stated as of december 31, 2009 for fiscal 2010 and december 31, 2008 for fiscal 2009 to correspond with their balance sheet date. balances prior to fiscal 2009 are stated as of january 31 of the corresponding fiscal year. excludes units and square footage for our operations in germany and south korea, which we disposed of in october 2006. square footage is reported in thousands. 7 (2) excludes 43 wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. also excludes 23 seiyu stores, which have closed or will close in fiscal 2011. international unit counts and operating formats (1) : country supermarkets discount stores supercenters hypermarkets other total argentina 24 19 43 brazil (2) 157 45 65 167 434 canada 233 84 317 chile 47 110 93 2 252 china 167 104 8 279 costa rica 25 127 6 12 170 el salvador 25 50 2 77 guatemala 28 113 7 16 164 honduras 7 39 1 6 53 india 1 1 japan 259 111 1 371 mexico (3) 202 246 169 852 1,469 nicaragua 7 48 55 puerto rico 30 7 8 11 56 united kingdom 57 29 261 24 371 grand total 844 973 526 650 1,119 4,112 (1) international unit counts, with the exception of canada and puerto rico, are stated as of december 31, 2009 for fiscal 2010 to correspond with their balance sheet date. (2) other format includes 23 sam clubs, 43 cash-n-carry stores, 100 combination discount and grocery stores and 1 general merchandise store. (3) other format includes 98 sam clubs, 308 combination discount and grocery stores, 86 department stores and 360 restaurants. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not found in the united states have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers. other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the international segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. in addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries. seasonal aspects of operations. the international segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, a large volume of sales occur in our fourth fiscal quarter. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the international segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. we also operate local, national and international restaurant chains in mexico, and consumer finance operations in chile and in mexico. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the international segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position. in our international units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 132 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico and the united kingdom, including two export 8 consolidation facilities in the united states. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the international segment. during fiscal 2010, approximately 83% of the international segment purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the international segment purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 132 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 37. third parties owned and operated the remaining 61 distribution facilities. sam club segment the sam club segment had net sales of $46.7 billion, $46.9 billion and $44.3 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a membership club warehouse, we operate sam clubs in 48 states. facility sizes for sam clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet. sam club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . sam club segment club count and square footage (1) fiscal year opened closed total square footage balance forward 551 70,677 2006 17 (1 ) 567 73,391 2007 15 (3 ) 579 76,270 2008 12 591 78,236 2009 11 602 79,906 2010 6 (12 ) 596 79,401 (1) total and square footage columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. square footage is reported in thousands. merchandise. sam club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items including member mark, bakers &amp; chefs and sam club brands in five categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format. food &amp; beverages, including dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and other grocery items; health and wellness, including pharmacy and optical services, hba, otc, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and restaurant supplies; technology, office and entertainment, including electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, toys, office supplies, office furniture and photo processing; home and apparel, including home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, house wares, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; and tobacco/candy and fuel/auto, including snack foods, tobacco, tools and power equipment, tire and battery centers and gasoline stations. sales for the sam club segment by general merchandise category were as follows during the fiscal year ended: january 31, category 2010 2009 food &amp; beverage 39 % 39 % health &amp; wellness 19 % 18 % technology, office &amp; entertainment 10 % 10 % home &amp; apparel 8 % 9 % tobacco/candy &amp; fuel/auto 24 % 24 % total 100 % 100 % 9 operations. operating hours for sam clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam clubs are membership-only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including debit cards, certain types of credit cards, and a private label and co-branded discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers health benefit plans. members include both business owners and individual consumers. individual consumers are referred to as advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 each. sam club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services. the annual fee for a primary plus member (business or advantage) is $100. in addition, business plus primary members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 each. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam club segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. generally, its highest volume of sales occurs in the fourth fiscal quarter, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest volume occurs during the first fiscal quarter. competition. sam club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. sam club competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2010, approximately 63% of the sam club segment non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam club segment dedicated distribution facilities and some of the walmart u.s. segment distribution centers for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam club purchases directly to sam club locations. as of january 31, 2010, our sam club segment operations were supported by 26 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 26 distribution facilities, we owned and operated eight. third parties owned and operated the remaining 18 distribution facilities. the principal focus of our sam club distribution operations is on crossdocking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. crossdocking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a crossdock facility, sometimes less than an hour. sam club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 14 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 14 includes information regarding our net revenues received from external customers and the total assets of continuing operations we held in the united states and the other countries in which we operate. portions of our annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. employees as of the end of fiscal 2010, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the united states and 700,000 associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. in the united states, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including the walmart profit sharing and 401(k) plan, store discount cards or sam club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the associate stock purchase program, and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. the company medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. 10 in our operations outside the united states, the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is http://www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our senior financial officer code of ethics and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors . these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the united states and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our walmart u.s. segment and sam club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the united states. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our international segment. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations, also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. 11 we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and sam clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets or sam clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our international segment and our future financial performance. failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be affected adversely. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our walmart u.s. segment competes with 12 retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. our ability to offer value and service to our customers through various programs, including edlp, rollbacks and store of the community, have allowed us to compete successfully against our competitors in most instances. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. our international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, puerto rico, and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china and india and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2010, our international operations generated 24.7% of our net sales. as a result of our expansion activities in foreign countries, we expect that our international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the united states and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. 13 moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes, other weather conditions, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, such as major winter storms, droughts and tornados, and geo-political events, such as civil unrest in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located or terrorist attacks, both internationally and domestically, could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these factors could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations and financial performance. the significant property damage experienced by the company and others resulting from the hurricanes in fiscal year 2006 resulted in substantial increases in property insurance premiums and limitations in coverage offered by the property insurance markets to us and others. the insurance coverage offered to the company for named windstorms, such as hurricanes and tropical storms, was substantially more limited and carried higher premiums than the coverage previously available to us. as a result, the company has chosen to be primarily self-insured for losses that may result from named windstorms. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the united states. the class as certified in dukes currently includes present and former female associates. the plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys fees. on june 4, 2004, the u.s. district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs motion for class certification, which we have appealed. on february 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit upheld the district court ruling. on february 20, 2007, the company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the court of appeals. on november 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of february 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. as a result, the company petition for rehearing en banc was denied as moot. the company filed a new petition for rehearing en banc on january 8, 2008. on february 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an order granting the petition. the court of appeals heard oral argument on the petition on march 24, 2009. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 11 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. if we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in 14 litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. implementation of a new financial system in fiscal year 2011, if not properly completed, could make financial information unavailable on a timely basis and delay our financial reporting. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. in the second quarter of fiscal 2011, we expect to implement a new financial system in our u.s., canada and puerto rico operations. the implementation of this new financial system relates to the largest portion of our business and will be a significant component of our internal controls over financial reporting. if the new financial system does not function properly upon implementation, we may be unable to produce information as needed to manage our business most efficiently or to accumulate and report financial information on a timely basis. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. 20risk factors, and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q. in addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2011 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( walmart, the company or we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at every day low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on january 31 for our u.s. and canada operations and december 31 for all other operations. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2011, we had net sales of approximately $419.0 billion. currently, our operations comprise three reportable business segments: (1) the walmart u.s. segment; (2) the walmart international segment; and (3) the sam club segment. our walmart u.s. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for 62.1% of our fiscal 2011 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in the united states and puerto rico, as well as walmart online retail operations, walmart.com. our walmart international segment consists of retail operations in 14 countries. this segment generated 26.1% of our fiscal 2011 net sales. the walmart international segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, sam clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the united states and puerto rico. our sam club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs in the united states and puerto rico and the segment online retail operations, samsclub.com. sam club accounted for 11.8% of our fiscal 2011 net sales. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in 1984, we opened our first three sam clubs, and in 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. at january 31, 2011, our walmart international segment conducted retail business in 14 countries. 4 our business segments the company is engaged in the operation of retail stores located in all 50 states of the united states and puerto rico; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, japan and the united kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in chile, mexico and five countries in central america; and its joint ventures in india and china and other controlled subsidiaries in china. the company defines its segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker ( codm ) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the walmart u.s. segment includes the company mass merchant concept in the united states and puerto rico operating under the walmart or wal-mart brand, as well as walmart.com. the walmart international segment consists of the company operations outside of the 50 united states and puerto rico. the sam club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the united states and puerto rico, as well as samsclub.com. the company measures the results of its segments using each segment operating income which includes certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when we do so, the segment operating income for each segment affected by the revision is restated for all periods presented to maintain comparability. walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $260.3 billion, $259.9 billion and $257.0 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store, neighborhood market or other small format location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and puerto rico, with supercenters in 48 states and puerto rico, discount stores in 45 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small formats in 16 states and puerto rico. supercenters range in size from 80,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 184,000 square feet. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. neighborhood markets and other small formats range in size from 3,000 square feet to 62,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 39,000 square feet. from time to time, walmart u.s. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . walmart u.s. segment unit count and retail square feet (1) (2) walmart u.s. supercenters walmart u.s. discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (3) total square feet opened closed conversions (3) total square feet balance forward 1,985 371,509 1,218 124,695 2007 132 (3 ) 148 2,262 422,167 15 (2 ) (148 ) 1,083 115,487 2008 82 109 2,453 457,472 7 (2 ) (109 ) 979 105,541 2009 88 79 2,620 487,907 2 (4 ) (79 ) 898 97,156 2010 49 86 2,755 510,757 (2 ) (86 ) 810 87,721 2011 50 102 2,907 534,577 (102 ) 708 75,116 walmart u.s. neighborhood markets and other small formats total walmart u.s. segment fiscal year opened closed total square feet opened (4) closed total square feet balance forward 131 5,026 3,334 501,230 2007 12 143 5,485 159 (5 ) 3,488 543,139 2008 20 163 6,365 109 (2 ) 3,595 569,378 2009 24 (2 ) 185 7,193 114 (6 ) 3,703 592,256 2010 5 190 7,374 54 (2 ) 3,755 605,852 2011 2 (3 ) 189 7,374 52 (3 ) 3,804 617,067 (1) total and square feet columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) as part of an operational realignment in february 2010, the company shifted its puerto rico operations from the walmart international segment to the respective walmart u.s. and sam club segments. unit count and square feet data presented in the table above for the walmart u.s. segment have been restated for all periods presented. (3) includes expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. (4) total opened, net of expansions, relocations and conversions of discount stores to supercenters. 5 merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including discount stores, supercenters and neighborhood markets and other small formats. (1) grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; (2) entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service, and seasonal merchandise; (3) hardlines consist of stationery and books, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts; (4) health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services; (5) apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and (6) home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d&eacute;cor, outdoor living and horticulture. the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of sales in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including great value, equate, ol roy, spring valley, parent choice, marketside, oak leaf, prima della, everstart, faded glory, no boundaries, george, athletic works, secret treasures, puritan, hometrends, mainstays, ozark trail, white stag and canopy. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include general electric, black &amp; decker, rival, disney, better homes &amp; gardens, op, starter, danskin now and just my size. the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended january 31, 2011 and 2010: january 31, strategic merchandise units 2011 2010 grocery 54 % 53 % entertainment 12 % 13 % hardlines 11 % 11 % health and wellness 11 % 10 % apparel 7 % 8 % home 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores and neighborhood markets and other small formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards, ebt cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through paypal. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending january 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending april 30. competition. our supercenters compete with other supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, discount stores, supermarkets, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, many of which are national or regional chains. our discount stores and neighborhood markets and other small formats compete with other supercenter-type, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores and supermarkets, many of which are national or regional chains. we also compete with internet-based retailers and catalog businesses and with other retailers for new store sites. 6 our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; save even more a strategy to meet or be below a competitor advertised price on key value items; store of the community a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; and clean, fast and friendly our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment. we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. distribution. during fiscal 2011, approximately 78% of the walmart u.s. segment purchases of merchandise were shipped to the segment stores through our distribution centers. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our walmart u.s. segment operations are supported by 123 distribution facilities as of january 31, 2011, located strategically throughout the continental united states and puerto rico. of these 123 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. third parties owned and operated the remaining 18 distribution facilities. in addition to servicing the walmart u.s. segment, some of our walmart distribution centers also service our sam club segment for certain items. walmart international segment the walmart international segment net sales for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, were $109.2 billion, $97.4 billion and $96.1 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. our walmart international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, japan, and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in chile, mexico and five countries in central america; our joint ventures in india and china and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. walmart international operates units under approximately 60 different banners in numerous different formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, restaurants and, in mexico, apparel stores. in addition, in mexico and canada, walmart international operates banks that focus on consumer lending. our walmart international segment offers a limited amount of consumer credit products, principally through chile, canada and mexico. 7 walmart international segment unit count and retail square feet (1) (2) (square feet in thousands) argentina brazil canada central america chile china fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 11 2,175 295 23,225 278 31,730 56 10,261 2007 13 2,427 299 23,789 289 33,591 413 7,128 73 13,583 2008 21 3,789 313 24,958 305 36,590 457 7,822 202 36,391 2009 28 4,301 349 26,594 318 39,501 502 8,277 197 9,564 225 39,973 2010 43 5,185 434 28,695 317 40,225 519 8,441 252 10,437 279 49,401 2011 63 6,211 479 30,272 325 42,005 549 8,739 279 11,115 328 56,317 walmart japan (3) india mexico united kingdom total walmart international fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 434 26,768 774 44,655 315 25,532 2,163 164,346 2007 422 26,926 889 50,401 335 26,800 2,733 184,645 2008 420 24,569 1,023 56,804 352 27,868 3,093 218,791 2009 417 24,514 1,201 63,067 358 29,011 3,595 244,802 2010 414 24,292 1 50 1,469 69,067 371 30,053 4,099 265,846 2011 414 24,513 5 270 1,730 76,229 385 31,009 4,557 286,680 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2010 for fiscal year 2011, december 31, 2009 for fiscal year 2010 and december 31, 2008 for fiscal year 2009 to correspond to the fiscal year end for those operations. balances for fiscal years 2008 and 2007 are stated as of january 31 of the corresponding fiscal year. the unit counts and retail square feet also exclude our operations in germany and south korea, which were disposed of in october 2006. (2) as part of an operational realignment in february 2010, the company shifted its puerto rico operations from the walmart international segment to the respective walmart u.s. and sam club segments. total walmart international unit count and retail square feet data presented in the table above excludes puerto rico. (3) all prior periods have been restated to include the wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. also excludes 23 seiyu units which were closed in fiscal 2010. walmart international has a diverse portfolio with approximately 60 banners, represented in three major categories, retail, wholesale and other. generally, retail centers range in size from 2,000 square feet to 250,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 40,000 square feet to 150,000 square feet. other, representing restaurants in chile, japan and mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 10,000 square feet. unit counts (1) for walmart international are as follows: country retail wholesale other total argentina 63 63 brazil 403 76 479 canada 325 325 chile 277 2 279 china 322 6 328 costa rica 180 180 el salvador 78 78 guatemala 173 2 175 honduras 56 56 india 5 5 japan 371 43 414 mexico 1,256 108 366 1,730 nicaragua 60 60 united kingdom 385 385 international total 3,949 197 411 4,557 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2010 to correspond with the country balance sheet date. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the u.s. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the walmart international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. 8 operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including credit cards, debit cards and private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers and in chile, canada and mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries. other consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the walmart international segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. in addition, relationships with key global suppliers continue to help us leverage our volumes across countries. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending january 31 and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending april 30. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and international chains in the supermarket, discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. we also operate local, national and international restaurant chains in mexico, and consumer finance operations in canada, chile and mexico. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise that offers exceptional value in the walmart international segment determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which walmart international operates. in our international units, our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment competitive position in the markets where we operate. distribution. we utilize a total of 134 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua and the united kingdom, including two export consolidation facilities in the united states. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2011, approximately 77% of the walmart international segment purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 134 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 34 and leased and operated 38. third parties owned and operated the remaining 62 distribution facilities. sam club segment the sam club segment had net sales of $49.5 billion, $47.8 billion and $48.0 billion for the fiscal years ended january 31, 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a membership club warehouse, we operate sam clubs in 48 states and puerto rico. facility sizes for sam clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 133,000 square feet. sam club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . sam club segment club count and retail square feet (1) (2) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 576 74,471 2007 15 (3 ) 588 77,350 2008 12 600 79,316 2009 11 611 80,986 2010 6 (12 ) 605 80,539 2011 4 609 81,202 (1) total and square feet columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. 9 (2) as part of an operational realignment in february 2010, the company shifted its puerto rico operations from the walmart international segment to the respective walmart u.s. and sam club segments. unit count and square feet data presented in the table above for the sam club segment have been restated for all periods presented. merchandise. sam club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items including member mark, bakers &amp; chefs and sam club brands in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format. (1) grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; (2) fuel and other categories includes gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; (3) technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, toys, office supplies, office furniture and photo processing; (4) home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; and (5) health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services, and over the counter drugs. sales for the sam club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, were as follows during the fiscal years ended: january 31, category 2011 2010 grocery and consumables 55 % 56 % fuel and other categories 23 % 21 % technology, office and entertainment 9 % 10 % home and apparel 8 % 8 % health and wellness 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % operations. operating hours for sam clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members and plus members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam clubs are membership-only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including debit cards, certain types of credit cards, and private label and co-branded discover credit cards issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members health benefit plans. members include both business owners and individual consumers. individual consumers are referred to as advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to eight business associates to their business account for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each. sam club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both business and advantage club members. the annual fee for a primary plus member (business or advantage) is $100 (plus taxes, if applicable). in addition, business plus primary members can add up to sixteen business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam club segment business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending january 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending april 30. 10 competition. sam club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. sam club competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2011, approximately 63% of the sam club segment non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam club segment dedicated distribution facilities and some of the walmart u.s. segment distribution centers for certain items. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam club segment purchases directly to sam club locations. as of january 31, 2011, our sam club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8. third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities. the principal focus of our sam club distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, sometimes less than an hour. sam club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2011 (the annual report to shareholders ) under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 16 to our consolidated financial statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 16 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales and the total assets and long-lived assets of continuing operations we held in the united states and the other countries in which we operate. portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. employees as of the end of fiscal 2011, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.1 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the united states and 0.7 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt employees and experiences significant turnover in employees each year. the company maintains separate profit sharing and 401(k) plans for associates in the united states and puerto rico. associates generally become participants following one year of employment. through fiscal 2011, the profit sharing component of the plan was entirely funded by the company and the company made an additional contribution to the associates 401(k) component of the plan. in addition to the company contributions, associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan. beginning in fiscal 2012, the company will offer a safe harbor 401(k) plan to all eligible united states associates. the company will match 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. the company will offer the same matching contribution to all eligible puerto rico associates. the matching contributions will immediately vest at 100% for each associate. participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not more than the statutory limits. participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits. in addition, in the united states, the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases in the associate stock purchase program, and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. the company medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. in our operations outside the united states, the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 11 executive officers of the registrant the following chart names each of the executive officers of the company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years. name business experience current position held since age eduardo castro-wright vice chairman, wal-mart stores, inc., responsible for global ecommerce and global sourcing. from november 2008 to july 2010, he served as vice chairman, responsible for walmart u.s. from september 2005 to november 2008, he served as executive vice president and president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. 2010 56 m. susan chambers executive vice president, people division. from december 2003 to april 2006, she served as executive vice president, risk management, insurance and benefits administration. 2006 53 brian c. cornell executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam club. from june 2007 to april 2009, he served as chief executive officer of michaels, inc., an arts and crafts specialty retailer. from april 2004 to june 2007, he served as executive vice president and chief marketing officer of safeway, inc., a food and drug retailer. 2009 52 leslie a. dach executive vice president, corporate affairs and government relations. from march 1997 to august 2006, he served as vice chairman of daniel j. edelman, inc. 2006 56 michael t. duke president and chief executive officer. from september 2005 to january 2009, he served as vice chairman, wal-mart stores, inc., responsible for walmart international. 2009 61 rollin l. ford executive vice president, chief information officer. from february 2003 to april 2006, he served as executive vice president, logistics and supply chain. 2006 48 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. from february 2009 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, general counsel. from december 2007 to february 2009, he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel. from september 2003 to december 2007, he served as vice president, general counsel, corporate division. 2010 46 charles m. holley, jr. executive vice president and chief financial officer. from january 2007 to november 2010, he served as executive vice president, finance and treasurer. from december 2005 to january 2007, he served as senior vice president, finance. 2010 54 c. douglas mcmillon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. from august 2005 to january 2009, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam club. 2009 44 william s. simon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. from march 2007 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer, walmart u.s. from march 2006 to march 2007, he served as executive vice president, professional services, walmart u.s. 2010 51 s. robson walton chairman of the board of directors. 1992 66 steven p. whaley senior vice president and controller. from december 2005 to january 2007, he served as vice president and controller. from september 2005 to december 2005, he served as vice president and assistant controller. 2007 51 12 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is http://www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors . these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a. risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the united states and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our walmart u.s. segment and sam club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the united states. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our walmart international segment. 13 higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rates fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other store formats, and sam clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other small formats or sam clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing walmart international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our walmart international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our walmart international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our walmart international segment and our future financial performance. 14 failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be affected adversely. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarts, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarts, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards, and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transport availability and cost, transport security, inflation, and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us, or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. 15 our walmart international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in argentina, brazil, canada, chile, costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, japan, mexico, nicaragua, and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china and india and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2011, our walmart international operations generated 26.1% of our net sales. as a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the united states, we expect that our walmart international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the united states and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our walmart international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our walmart international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our walmart international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornados, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distributions centers are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the recent earthquake and tsunami in japan, and could adversely affect our financial performance. in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages. 16 we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , a class-action lawsuit brought on behalf of all past and present female employees in all of our retail stores and wholesale clubs in the united states. the class as certified in dukes currently includes present and former female associates. the plaintiffs in this case allege that we have engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training and job assignments and seek, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages and attorneys fees. on june 4, 2004, the u.s. district court hearing this case issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs motion for class certification, which we have appealed. on february 6, 2007, a divided three-judge panel of the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit issued a decision affirming the district court certification order. on february 20, 2007, the company filed a petition asking that the decision be reconsidered by a larger panel of the court of appeals. on december 11, 2007, the three-judge panel withdrew its opinion of february 6, 2007, and issued a revised opinion. as a result, the company petition for rehearing en banc was denied as moot. the company filed a new petition for rehearing en banc on january 8, 2008. on february 13, 2009, the court of appeals issued an order granting the petition. on april 26, 2010, the ninth circuit issued a divided (6-5) opinion affirming certain portions of the district court ruling and reversing other portions. on august 25, 2010, the company filed a petition for a writ of certiorari to the united states supreme court seeking review of the ninth circuit decision, which was granted by the united states supreme court on december 6, 2010. the company filed its brief for petitioner on january 20, 2011; the brief for respondents was filed on february 22, 2011; and oral argument was held on march 29, 2011. we discuss these cases and other litigation to which we are party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 12 to our consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. if we do not maintain the security of customer-related information, we could damage our reputation with customers, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com and www.samsclub.com depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. a compromise of our security systems that results in customer personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers and others, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our employees. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. 17 we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.risk factors, and in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations incorporated by reference in our annual reports on form 10-k and 2 appearing in our quarterly reports on form 10-q. in addition, from time to time, we may disclose additional risk factors in our quarterly reports on form 10-q and other reports filed with the sec. investors and other readers are urged to consider all of these risks, uncertainties and other factors carefully in evaluating the forward-looking statements. forward-looking statements that we make or that are made by others on our behalf are based on a knowledge of our business and the environment in which we operate and assumptions that we believe to be reasonable at the time such forward-looking statements are made, but because of the factors described and listed above, as well as the other risks, uncertainties and other factors, or as a result of changes in facts, assumptions not being realized or other circumstances, actual results may differ materially from those contemplated in the forward-looking statements. consequently, this cautionary statement qualifies all of the forward-looking statements we make or that are made on our behalf, including those made herein and that are incorporated by reference herein. we cannot assure the reader that the results or developments expected or anticipated by us will be realized or, even if substantially realized, that those results or developments will result in the expected consequences for us or affect us, our business, our operations or our operating results in the way we expect. we caution readers not to place undue reliance on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of their dates. we undertake no obligation to update any of the forward-looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances except to the extent required by applicable law. 3 wal-mart stores, inc. annual report on form 10-k for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2012 part i item 1. business general wal-mart stores, inc. ( walmart, the company or we ) operates retail stores in various formats around the world and is committed to saving people money so they can live better. we earn the trust of our customers every day by providing a broad assortment of quality merchandise and services at everyday low prices ( edlp ) while fostering a culture that rewards and embraces mutual respect, integrity and diversity. edlp is our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price everyday so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity. our consolidated financial statements are based on a fiscal year ending on january 31 for our united states ( u.s. ) and canadian operations and december 31 for all other operations. during the fiscal year ended january 31, 2012, we generated net sales of approximately $443.9 billion. currently, our operations comprise three reportable business segments: the walmart u.s. segment; the walmart international segment; and the sam club segment. our walmart u.s. segment is the largest segment of our business, accounting for approximately 60% of our fiscal 2012 net sales and operates retail stores in various formats in all 50 states in the u.s. and puerto rico, as well as walmart online retail operations, walmart.com. our walmart international segment consists of retail operations in 26 countries. this segment generated approximately 28% of our fiscal 2012 net sales. the walmart international segment includes numerous formats of retail stores, restaurants, sam clubs and online retail operations that operate outside the u.s. our sam club segment consists of membership warehouse clubs operated in 47 states in the u.s. and puerto rico, as well as the segment online retail operations, samsclub.com. sam club accounted for approximately 12% of our fiscal 2012 net sales. we maintain our principal offices at 702 s.w. 8th street, bentonville, arkansas 72716, usa. the development of our company although walmart was incorporated in delaware in october 1969, the businesses conducted by our founders began in 1945 when sam m. walton opened a franchise ben franklin variety store in newport, arkansas. in 1946, his brother, james l. walton, opened a similar store in versailles, missouri. until 1962, our founders business was devoted entirely to the operation of variety stores. in that year, the first wal-mart discount city, which was a discount store, opened in rogers, arkansas. in fiscal 1984, we opened our first three sam clubs, and in fiscal 1988, we opened our first supercenter. in fiscal 1999, we opened our first neighborhood market. in fiscal 1992, we began our first international initiative when we entered into a joint venture in mexico, in which we owned a 50% interest along with cifra s.a. de c.v. ( cifra ). in 1998, we acquired the controlling interest in cifra, and in february 2000, cifra officially changed its name to wal-mart de mexico, s.a. de c.v. since fiscal 1992, our international presence has continued to expand. at january 31, 2012, our walmart international segment conducted retail business in 26 countries. our business segments the company is engaged in the operation of: retail stores located throughout the united states; its wholly-owned subsidiaries in argentina, brazil, canada, china, japan and the united kingdom; its majority-owned subsidiaries in chile, mexico, 12 countries in africa, and 5 countries in central america; and its joint ventures in india and china and other controlled subsidiaries in china. the company defines its segments as those business units whose operating results the chief operating decision maker ( codm ) regularly reviews to analyze performance and allocate resources. the walmart u.s. segment includes the company mass merchant concept under the walmart or wal-mart brand, as well as walmart.com. the walmart international segment consists of the company operations outside of the u.s. the sam club segment includes the warehouse membership clubs in the u.s., as well as samsclub.com. the company measures the results of its segments using, among other measures, each segment operating income, which we calculate by including certain corporate overhead allocations. from time to time, we revise the measurement of each segment operating income, including any corporate overhead allocations, as dictated by the information regularly reviewed by our codm. when we do so, the prior period amounts for segment operating income are reclassified to conform to the current period presentation. 4 walmart u.s. segment the walmart u.s. segment had net sales of $264.2 billion, $260.3 billion and $259.9 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single supercenter, discount store, neighborhood market or other small store format location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a mass merchandiser of consumer products, the walmart u.s. segment operates retail stores in all 50 states and puerto rico, with supercenters in 48 states and puerto rico, discount stores in 45 states and puerto rico and neighborhood markets and other small store formats in 18 states and puerto rico. supercenters range in size from 78,000 square feet to 260,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 182,000 square feet. our discount stores range in size from 30,000 square feet to 219,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 106,000 square feet. neighborhood markets and other small formats range in size from 3,000 square feet to 64,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 38,000 square feet. from time to time, walmart u.s. tests different store formats to meet market demands and needs. customers can also purchase a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.walmart.com . walmart u.s. segment unit count and retail square feet (1) walmart u.s. supercenters walmart u.s. discount stores fiscal year opened closed conversions (2) total square feet opened closed conversions (2) total square feet balance forward 2,262 422,167 1,083 115,487 2008 82 109 2,453 457,472 7 (2 ) (109 ) 979 105,541 2009 88 79 2,620 487,907 2 (4 ) (79 ) 898 97,156 2010 49 86 2,755 510,757 (2 ) (86 ) 810 87,721 2011 50 102 2,907 534,577 (102 ) 708 75,116 2012 43 79 3,029 552,237 (79 ) 629 66,402 walmart u.s. neighborhood markets and other small formats total walmart u.s. segment fiscal year opened closed total square feet opened (3) closed total square feet balance forward 143 5,485 3,488 543,139 2008 20 163 6,365 109 (2 ) 3,595 569,378 2009 24 (2 ) 185 7,193 114 (6 ) 3,703 592,256 2010 5 190 7,374 54 (2 ) 3,755 605,852 2011 2 (3 ) 189 7,374 52 (3 ) 3,804 617,067 2012 27 (6 ) 210 8,047 70 (6 ) 3,868 626,686 (1) total and square feet columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. (2) includes conversions of discount stores to supercenters. (3) total opened, net of conversions of discount stores to supercenters. merchandise. walmart u.s. does business in six strategic merchandise units, listed below, across several store formats including supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats. the percentage of net sales calculated below reflects sales of our brick and mortar stores, as well as sales of our online business. (1) grocery consists of a full line of grocery items, including meat, produce, deli, bakery, dairy, frozen foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral and dry grocery, as well as consumables such as health and beauty aids, baby products, household chemicals, paper goods and pet supplies; (2) entertainment contains electronics, toys, cameras and supplies, photo processing services, cellular phones, cellular service plan contracts and prepaid service and books; (3) hardlines consist of stationery, automotive accessories, hardware and paint, sporting goods, fabrics and crafts and seasonal merchandise; (4) health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services; (5) apparel includes apparel for women, girls, men, boys and infants, shoes, jewelry and accessories; and (6) home includes home furnishings, housewares and small appliances, bedding, home d&eacute;cor, outdoor living and horticulture. 5 the walmart u.s. segment also offers financial services and related products, including money orders, wire transfers, check cashing and bill payment. these services total less than 1% of annual sales. nationally advertised merchandise represents a significant portion of the merchandise sold in the walmart u.s. segment. we also market lines of merchandise under our private-label store brands including: canopy, equate, everstart, faded glory, george, great value, hometrends, mainstays, marketside, no boundaries, ol roy, ozark trail, parent choice, prima della, puritan, spring valley and white stag. the company also markets lines of merchandise under licensed brands, some of which include: better homes &amp; gardens, danskin now, disney, general electric, just my size, op, rival and starter. the percentage of net sales for the walmart u.s. segment, including online sales, represented by each strategic merchandise unit was as follows during the fiscal years ended: january 31, strategic merchandise units 2012 2011 grocery 55 % 53 % entertainment 12 % 12 % hardlines 10 % 11 % health and wellness 11 % 11 % apparel 7 % 8 % home 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % periodically, we make revisions to the categorization of the components comprising our strategic merchandise units. when revisions are made, we also adjust the previous period presentation to maintain comparability. operations. hours of operation for nearly all supercenters and an increasing number of discount stores and neighborhood markets are 24 hours each day. hours of operation for the remaining supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets and other small store formats vary by location, but are generally 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 or 11:00 p.m., seven days a week. we accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, electronic benefits transfer cards, a private-label store credit card issued by a third-party provider and online payments through paypal. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our customers health benefit plans. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart u.s. segment business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending january 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending april 30. competition. the walmart u.s. segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, dollar, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. we also compete with other retailers for new store sites. our ability to develop, open and operate units at the right locations and offer value and service to our customers largely determines our competitive position within the retail industry. we employ many programs designed to meet competitive pressures within our industry. these programs include the following: edlp our commitment to price leadership and our pricing philosophy under which we price items at a low price every day so our customers trust that our prices will not change under frequent promotional activity; rollbacks our commitment to continually pass cost savings on to the customer by lowering prices on selected goods; save even more a strategy to meet or be below a competitor advertised price; store of the community a program to ensure the merchandise assortment in a particular store fits the demographic needs of the local community in which that store is located; and clean, fast and friendly our commitment to deliver a great customer experience through fast, friendly service in a clean environment. 6 we offer a broad assortment of merchandise that provides one-stop shopping, in-stock levels that give our customers confidence that we will have the products they need and operating hours that allow customers to shop at their convenience. distribution. during fiscal 2012, approximately 80% of the walmart u.s. segment purchases of merchandise were shipped to the stores through our distribution centers, which are located strategically throughout the united states. the balance of merchandise purchased was shipped directly to stores from suppliers. general merchandise is transported to stores primarily through our private truck fleet. however, we contract with common carriers to transport the majority of our perishable and dry grocery merchandise. our walmart u.s. segment operations are supported by 133 distribution facilities as of january 31, 2012, located strategically throughout the u.s. of these 133 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 105. we owned and a third party operated one distribution facility and third parties owned and operated the remaining 27 distribution facilities. in addition to servicing the walmart u.s. segment, some of our walmart distribution centers also service our sam club segment for certain items. walmart international segment the walmart international segment net sales for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, were $125.9 billion, $109.2 billion and $97.4 billion, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single unit accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. our walmart international segment is comprised of our wholly-owned subsidiaries operating in argentina, brazil, canada, china, japan, and the united kingdom; our majority-owned subsidiaries operating in chile, mexico, 12 countries in africa and 5 countries in central america; our joint ventures in china and india and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. walmart international operates units under approximately 70 banners in numerous formats, including discount stores, supermarkets, supercenters, hypermarkets, websites, warehouse clubs, restaurants, and apparel stores. also, on a limited basis, our walmart international segment operates banks that provide consumer lending. walmart international segment unit count and retail square feet (1) africa argentina brazil canada central america chile fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 13 2,427 299 23,789 289 33,591 413 7,128 2008 21 3,789 313 24,958 305 36,590 457 7,822 2009 28 4,301 349 26,594 318 39,501 502 8,277 197 9,564 2010 43 5,185 434 28,695 317 40,225 519 8,441 252 10,437 2011 63 6,211 479 30,272 325 42,005 549 8,739 279 11,115 2012 347 18,529 88 7,270 512 31,575 333 43,738 622 9,501 316 11,785 china india japan (2) mexico united kingdom total walmart international fiscal year unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet unit count square feet balance forward 73 13,583 422 26,926 889 50,401 335 26,800 2,733 184,645 2008 202 36,391 420 24,569 1,023 56,804 352 27,868 3,093 218,791 2009 225 39,973 417 24,514 1,201 63,067 358 29,011 3,595 244,802 2010 279 49,401 1 50 414 24,292 1,469 69,067 371 30,053 4,099 265,846 2011 328 56,317 5 270 414 24,513 1,730 76,229 385 31,009 4,557 286,680 2012 370 62,124 15 826 419 24,521 2,088 85,253 541 33,765 5,651 328,887 (1) square feet columns are reported in thousands. walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31 for fiscal 2012 through 2009. canada unit counts are stated as of january 31 for fiscal 2012 through 2009. for fiscal 2008, all country balances are stated as of january 31, 2008. (2) all periods include the wakana units, which are take-out restaurants generally less than 1,000 square feet in size. the information for fiscal 2009, fiscal 2008 and the balance forward in the table excludes 23 seiyu units closed in fiscal 2010. 7 walmart international has a diverse portfolio with approximately 70 banners, represented in three major categories: retail, wholesale and other. generally, retail centers range in size from 8,900 square feet to 110,000 square feet. our wholesale stores generally range in size from 35,000 square feet to 70,000 square feet. other, including restaurants in chile, japan and mexico, range in size from under 1,000 square feet to 4,200 square feet. unit counts (1) for walmart international are as follows: geographic market retail wholesale other total africa (2) 249 98 347 argentina 88 88 brazil 429 83 512 canada 333 333 central america (3) 620 2 622 chile 314 2 316 china 364 6 370 india 15 15 japan 367 52 419 mexico 1,600 124 364 2,088 united kingdom 541 541 international total 4,905 328 418 5,651 (1) walmart international unit counts, with the exception of canada, are stated as of december 31, 2011 to correspond with the country balance sheet date. (2) africa includes botswana, ghana, lesotho, malawi, mozambique, namibia, nigeria, south africa, swaziland, tanzania, uganda and zambia. (3) central america includes costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras and nicaragua. merchandise. the merchandising strategy for the walmart international segment is similar to that of our operations in the united states in terms of the breadth and scope of merchandise offered for sale. while brand name merchandise accounts for a majority of sales, numerous store brands not offered for sale in the u.s. stores and clubs have been developed to serve customers in the different markets in which the walmart international segment operates. in addition, steps have been taken to develop relationships with local suppliers in each country to ensure reliable sources of quality merchandise. operations. the hours of operation for operating units in the walmart international segment vary by country and by individual markets within countries, depending upon local and national ordinances governing hours of operation. we accept a variety of payment methods including cash, check, debit and credit cards, private-label store credit cards issued by third-party providers, and in canada, chile and mexico, credit cards issued by our subsidiaries. limited consumer finance programs exist in certain markets to facilitate the purchase of goods by the customer. across the walmart international segment, we are leveraging best practices, lessons from multiple store formats and global sourcing practices. seasonal aspects of operations. the walmart international segment business is seasonal to a certain extent. historically, the segment highest sales volume and operating income occur in our fiscal quarter ending january 31 and the segment lowest sales volume and operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending april 30. the seasonality of the business varies by country due to different national and religious holidays, festivals and customs, as well as different climatic conditions. competition. the walmart international segment competes with a variety of local, national and global chains in the supermarket, discount, grocery, department, drug, variety and specialty stores, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses in each of the countries in which we operate. we also operate restaurant chains and consumer finance operations. our ability to offer our customers low prices on quality merchandise determines, to a large extent, our competitive position in the countries in which walmart international operates. edlp is the right business model for our customers and for all of our markets, including high-growth or emerging markets. we are in the midst of a multi-year plan to transition all of our markets to edlp. our ability to operate the food departments effectively has a major impact on the segment competitive position in the markets where we operate. 8 distribution. we utilize a total of 158 distribution facilities located in argentina, brazil, canada, central america, chile, china, india, japan, mexico, south africa and the united kingdom, including one export consolidation facility in the united states. through these facilities, we process and distribute both imported and domestic products to the operating units of the walmart international segment. during fiscal 2012, approximately 75% of the walmart international segment purchases flowed through these distribution facilities. suppliers ship the balance of the walmart international segment purchases directly to our stores in the various countries in which we operate. of these 158 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 39, we owned and third parties operated 9 and we leased and operated 68. third parties leased and operated the remaining 42 distribution facilities. sam club segment the sam club segment had net sales of $53.8 billion, $49.5 billion and $47.8 billion for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. during the most recent fiscal year, no single club location accounted for as much as 1% of total company net sales. general. as a membership club warehouse, facility sizes for sam clubs generally range between 71,000 and 190,000 square feet, with an average size of approximately 134,000 square feet. sam club also provides its members with a broad assortment of merchandise and services online at www.samsclub.com . sam club segment club count and retail square feet (1) fiscal year opened closed total square feet balance forward 588 77,350 2008 12 600 79,316 2009 11 611 80,986 2010 6 (12 ) 605 80,539 2011 4 609 81,202 2012 3 (1 ) 611 81,586 (1) total and square feet columns are as of january 31 for the years shown. retail square feet are reported in thousands. merchandise. sam club offers brand name merchandise, including hardgoods, some softgoods and selected private-label items such as member mark and three new proprietary brands, artisan fresh, daily chef and simply right, in five merchandise categories, listed below, within the warehouse club format. (1) grocery and consumables includes dairy, meat, bakery, deli, produce, dry, chilled or frozen packaged foods, alcoholic and nonalcoholic beverages, floral, snack foods, candy, other grocery items, health and beauty aids, paper goods, laundry and home care, baby care, pet supplies and other consumable items; (2) fuel and other categories consist of gasoline stations, tobacco, tools and power equipment, and tire and battery centers; (3) technology, office and entertainment includes electronics, wireless, software, video games, movies, books, music, office supplies, office furniture and photo processing; (4) home and apparel includes home improvement, outdoor living, grills, gardening, furniture, apparel, jewelry, housewares, toys, seasonal items, mattresses and small appliances; and (5) health and wellness includes pharmacy and optical services and over-the-counter drugs. 9 the percentage of net sales for the sam club segment, including online sales, by merchandise category, was as follows during the fiscal years ended: january 31, merchandise category 2012 2011 grocery and consumables 55 % 55 % fuel and other categories 24 % 23 % technology, office and entertainment 8 % 9 % home and apparel 8 % 8 % health and wellness 5 % 5 % total 100 % 100 % operations. operating hours for sam clubs are monday through friday from 10:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m., saturday from 9:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. and sunday from 10:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. additionally, all club locations offer a gold key program that permits business members and plus members to shop before the regular operating hours monday through saturday, starting at 7:00 a.m. sam clubs are membership only operations. a variety of payment methods are accepted at our clubs, including cash, check, debit cards, certain types of credit cards and private label and co-branded discover credit cards, issued by a third-party provider. in addition, our pharmacy and optical departments accept payments for products and services through our members health benefit plans. members include both business owners and individual consumers. individual consumers are referred to as advantage members. the annual membership fee for an individual advantage member is $40 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. the annual membership fee for business members is $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) for the primary membership card, with a spouse/household card available at no additional cost. in addition, business members can add up to 8 business associates to their business account for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each. sam club plus is a premium membership program that offers additional benefits and services to both business and advantage members. the annual fee for a plus member (business or advantage) is $100 (plus taxes, if applicable). in addition, business plus members can add up to 16 business associates to their business membership for $35 (plus taxes, if applicable) each. seasonal aspects of operations. the sam club segment business is seasonal to a certain extent due to different calendar events, national and religious holidays, as well as different climatic conditions. historically, its highest sales volume and segment operating income occur in the fiscal quarter ending january 31, which includes the holiday season, and the lowest sales volume and segment operating income occur during the fiscal quarter ending april 30. competition. sam club competes with other warehouse clubs, as well as with discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers, general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. sam club also competes with other retailers and warehouse clubs for desirable new club sites. our ability to offer low prices and quality merchandise and food to meet the needs of our members largely determines our competitive position in the warehouse club industry. distribution. during fiscal 2012, approximately 63% of the sam club segment non-fuel purchases were shipped from the sam club segment dedicated distribution facilities and from some of the walmart u.s. segment distribution centers. suppliers shipped the balance of the sam club segment purchases directly to sam club locations. as of january 31, 2012, our sam club segment operations were supported by 25 distribution facilities located strategically throughout the continental united states. of these 25 distribution facilities, we owned and operated 8. third parties owned and operated the remaining 17 distribution facilities. the principal focus of our sam club distribution operations is on cross-docking merchandise, while stored inventory is minimized. cross-docking is a distribution process under which shipments are directly transferred from inbound to outbound trailers. shipments typically spend less than 24 hours in a cross-dock facility, sometimes less than an hour. sam club uses a combination of our private truck fleet, as well as common carriers, to transport non-perishable merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. we contract with common carriers to transport perishable grocery merchandise from distribution centers to clubs. 10 other segment information certain financial information relating to our segments is included in our annual report to shareholders for the fiscal year ended january 31, 2012 ( annual report to shareholders ) under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations and in note 15 in the notes to consolidated financial statements included therein, which information is incorporated herein by reference. note 15 includes information regarding our segment and total company net sales, as well as long-lived assets in the united states. portions of the annual report to shareholders are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. employees as of the end of fiscal 2012, the company and its subsidiaries employed approximately 2.2 million employees ( associates ) worldwide, with approximately 1.4 million associates in the united states and 0.8 million associates internationally. similar to other retailers, the company has a large number of part-time, hourly or non-exempt associates and experiences significant turnover in associates each year. through fiscal 2011, the company maintained separate profit sharing and 401(k) plans for associates in the united states and puerto rico, under which associates generally became participants following one year of employment. the profit sharing component was entirely funded by the company, and the company also made additional contributions to the 401(k) component of the plan. in addition to the company contributions, associates could elect to contribute a percentage of their earnings to the 401(k) component of the plan. effective february 1, 2011, the company terminated the previous profit sharing and 401(k) plans and offered new safe harbor 401(k) plans for associates in the united states and puerto rico, under which associates generally become participants following one year of employment. under the safe harbor 401(k) plans, the company matches 100% of participant contributions up to 6% of annual eligible earnings. the matching contributions immediately vest at 100% for each associate. participants can contribute up to 50% of their pretax earnings, but not more than the statutory limits. participants age 50 or older may defer additional earnings in catch-up contributions up to the maximum statutory limits. contribution expense associated with these plans was $752 million in fiscal 2012 and $1.1 billion in fiscal 2011 and 2010. in addition, in the u.s., the company offers a broad range of company-paid benefits to our associates, including store discount cards or sam club memberships, bonuses based on company performance, matching a portion of purchases through the associate stock purchase plan and life insurance. the company also offers health-care benefits to eligible full-time and part-time associates. the company medical plan has no lifetime maximum benefit for most expenses. in our operations outside the u.s., the company provides a variety of associate benefits that vary based on customary local practices and statutory requirements. 11 executive officers of the registrant the following chart names each of the executive officers of the company, each of whom is elected by and serves at the pleasure of the board of directors. the business experience shown for each officer has been his or her principal occupation for at least the past five years, unless otherwise noted. name business experience current position held since age neil m. ashe executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, global ecommerce beginning in january 2012. from april 2011 to july 2011, he served as special advisor to the chief executive officer of cbs corporation, a mass media company. from july 2008 to april 2011, he served as president of cbs interactive, inc., an internet content publisher. from october 2006 to june 2008, he served as chief executive officer of cnet networks inc., an internet content company. 2012 44 rosalind g. brewer executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam club, effective february 1, 2012. from february 2011 to january 2012, she served as executive vice president and president of the east business unit of walmart u.s. from february 2010 to january 2011, she served as executive vice president and president of the south business unit of walmart u.s. from march 2007 to january 2010, she served as divisional senior vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in the southeast. from october 2006 to february 2007, she served as regional vice president of walmart u.s., responsible for operations in georgia. 2012 49 m. susan chambers executive vice president, global people. from december 2003 to april 2006, she served as executive vice president, risk management, insurance and benefits administration. 2006 54 leslie a. dach executive vice president, corporate affairs. from march 1997 to august 2006, he served as vice chairman of daniel j. edelman, inc. 2006 57 michael t. duke president and chief executive officer. from september 2005 to january 2009, he served as vice chairman, wal-mart stores, inc., responsible for walmart international. 2009 62 rollin l. ford executive vice president and chief administrative officer. from may 2006 to january 2012, he served as executive vice president, chief information officer. from february 2003 to april 2006, he served as executive vice president, logistics and supply chain. 2012 49 jeffrey j. gearhart executive vice president, general counsel and corporate secretary. from february 2009 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, general counsel. from december 2007 to february 2009, he served as senior vice president, deputy general counsel. from september 2003 to december 2007, he served as vice president, general counsel, corporate division. 2010 47 charles m. holley, jr. executive vice president and chief financial officer. from january 2007 to november 2010, he served as executive vice president, finance and treasurer. from december 2005 to january 2007, he served as senior vice president, finance. 2010 55 c. douglas mcmillon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart international. from august 2005 to january 2009, he served as executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, sam club. 2009 45 william s. simon executive vice president, president and chief executive officer, walmart u.s. from march 2007 to july 2010, he served as executive vice president, chief operating officer, walmart u.s. from march 2006 to march 2007, he served as executive vice president, professional services, walmart u.s. 2010 52 s. robson walton chairman of the board of directors. 1992 67 steven p. whaley senior vice president and controller. from december 2005 to january 2007, he served as vice president and controller. from september 2005 to december 2005, he served as vice president and assistant controller. 2007 52 12 our website and availability of sec reports and other information our corporate website is located at www.walmartstores.com . we file with or furnish to the sec annual reports on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and any amendment to those reports, proxy statements and annual reports to shareholders, and, from time to time, other documents. the reports and other documents filed with or furnished to the sec are available to investors on or through our corporate website free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file them with or furnish them to the sec. in addition, the public may read and copy any of the materials we file with the sec at the sec public reference room at 100 f street, ne, washington dc 20549. the public may obtain information on the operation of the public reference room by calling the sec at 1-800-sec-0330. the sec maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the company, that file electronically with the sec. the address of that website is www.sec.gov . our sec filings, our code of ethics for our ceo and senior financial officers and our statement of ethics can be found on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com/investors . these documents are available in print to any shareholder who requests a copy by writing or calling our investor relations department, which is located at our principal offices. a description of any substantive amendment or waiver of walmart code of ethics for the ceo and senior financial officers will be disclosed on the investor relations page of our website at www.walmartstores.com under the corporate governance section. any such description will be located on our website for a period of 12 months following the amendment or waiver. item 1a . risk factors the risks described below could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that apply to all companies operating in the united states and globally, as well as other risks that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. general economic factors, both domestically and internationally, may adversely affect our financial performance. general economic conditions, globally or in one or more of the markets we serve, may adversely affect our financial performance. in the united states, higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the housing market, inflation, deflation, higher levels of unemployment, decreases in consumer disposable income, unavailability of consumer credit, higher consumer debt levels, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, other regulatory changes, overall economic slowdown and other economic factors could adversely affect consumer demand for the products and services we sell through our walmart u.s. segment and sam club segment, change the mix of products we sell to one with a lower average gross margin, cause a slowdown in discretionary purchases of goods and result in slower inventory turnover and greater markdowns on inventory. higher levels of unemployment, inflation, deflation, decreases in consumer disposable income, changes in tax and other laws, higher fuel and other energy costs, weakness in the local housing market, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency devaluations and other adverse developments in the economies of the other countries in which we operate may adversely affect consumer demand for our merchandise in those countries, especially those countries in which average incomes are significantly lower than in the united states. these conditions may adversely affect our gross margins, cost of sales, inventory turnover and markdowns or otherwise adversely affect our operations and operating results in our walmart international segment. higher interest rates, higher fuel and other energy costs, transportation costs, inflation, higher costs of labor, insurance and healthcare, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, higher tax rates and other changes in tax laws, the imposition of measures that create barriers to or increase the costs associated with international trade, changes in other laws and regulations and other economic factors in the united states and other countries in which we have operations can increase our cost of sales and operating, selling, general and administrative expenses, and otherwise adversely affect our domestic and international operations and our operating results. the economic factors that affect our operations also affect the operations and economic viability of our suppliers from whom we purchase goods, a factor that can result in an increase in the cost to us of the goods we sell to our customers or, in more extreme cases, could result in certain suppliers not producing goods in the volume typically available to us for sale. we may face impediments to our expansion in the united states, including conversions of discount stores into supercenters and opening other store formats, which may adversely affect our financial performance. our expansion strategy depends upon our ability to execute our retail concepts successfully in new markets within the united states and upon our ability to increase the number of stores in markets in which we currently have operations. our ability to open additional supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other store formats, and sam clubs and to convert existing discount stores into supercenters depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel 13 and to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local land use and other regulations restricting the construction of buildings of the type in which we operate our various formats, as well as local community action opposed to the location of specific stores at specific sites and the adoption of certain local laws restricting our operations, may affect our ability to open new stores and clubs, to convert discount stores into supercenters or to relocate or expand existing units in certain cities and states. increased real estate, construction and development costs could limit our growth opportunities and our ability to convert our discount stores into supercenters. if we are unable to open new supercenters, discount stores, neighborhood markets, other small formats or sam clubs or continue to convert discount stores into supercenters, our financial performance, such as net sales and operating income growth, could be adversely affected. in addition, if consumers in the markets into which we expand are not receptive to our retail concepts or are otherwise not receptive to our presence in a market, our financial performance could be adversely affected. impediments to the expansion of our walmart international operations could adversely affect our financial performance. our business strategy for our walmart international segment includes expansion by selective acquisitions and strategic alliances that add new stores and markets to our existing walmart international business, as well as opening new units in the countries in which we have existing operations. in the countries in which we have existing operations, new units may be opened in the formats already existing in those countries or may be opened in newly introduced formats, such as supercenters or sam clubs, not previously operated in those markets. as in the united states, our ability to open new stores or to expand or relocate existing stores in a market served by our walmart international segment depends in large measure upon our ability to locate, hire and retain qualified personnel and our ability to acquire new store sites on acceptable terms. local laws can affect our ability to acquire attractive pre-existing buildings in which to locate units or sites on which to build new units or to expand existing units. in addition, access to local suppliers of certain types of goods may limit our ability to add new units or to expand product selections in existing units in certain markets. moreover, cultural differences in some markets into which we expand or into which we introduce new retail concepts may result in the consumers in those markets not being as receptive to our retail concepts as we anticipate those consumers will be and may make an effective response to such issues more difficult to achieve. if we do not effectively execute our expansion plans for our walmart international segment, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we may be unable to continue to identify suitable acquisition candidates at acceptable prices and may not be successful in completing the acquisition of any such candidate identified. although we ultimately believe we will be able to successfully integrate any newly acquired operations into our existing operations, no certainty exists that future acquisitions or alliances will be successfully integrated into our operations or can be successfully integrated in a reasonable time. our failure to identify appropriate candidates for acquisition or alliance or to integrate effectively future acquisitions and alliances into our existing operations could adversely affect the growth of our walmart international segment and our future financial performance. failure to attract and retain qualified associates, changes in laws and other labor issues could adversely affect our financial performance. our ability to continue to expand our operations in the united states and abroad depends on our ability to attract and retain a large and growing number of qualified associates. our ability to meet our labor needs, including our ability to find qualified personnel to fill positions that become vacant at our existing stores, clubs and distribution centers, while controlling our associate wage and related labor costs, is generally subject to numerous external factors, including the availability of a sufficient number of qualified persons in the work force of the markets in which we are located, unemployment levels within those markets, prevailing wage rates, changing demographics, health and other insurance costs and adoption of new or revised employment and labor laws and regulations. if we are unable to locate, to attract or to retain qualified personnel, if our costs of labor or related costs increase significantly or if new or revised labor laws, rules or regulations are adopted, our financial performance could be adversely affected. we face strong competition from other retailers and wholesale club operators, which could adversely affect our financial performance. the retail business is highly competitive. each of our business segments competes for customers, employees, store sites, products and services and in other important aspects of its business with many other local, regional and national retailers, both in the united states and in the foreign countries in which we have operations. our walmart u.s. segment competes with retailers operating discount, department, drug, dollar, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores and hypermarkets, as well as internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. our sam club segment competes with other wholesale club operators, as well as discount retailers, retail and wholesale grocers and general merchandise wholesalers and distributors, gasoline stations, as well as internet-based retailers, wholesalers and catalog businesses. internationally, we compete with retailers who operate department, drug, dollar stores, variety and specialty stores, supermarkets, supercenter-type stores, hypermarkets, wholesale clubs, internet-based retailers and catalog businesses. such retailers and wholesale club 14 operators compete in a variety of ways, including merchandise selection and availability, services offered to customers, location, store hours, in-store amenities and price. where necessary to compete effectively with competitors who price merchandise at points lower than the prices we set under our edlp philosophy, we will lower our prices on goods for sale. our ability to respond effectively to competitive pressures and changes in the retail markets could adversely affect our financial performance. see item 1. business above for additional discussion of our competitive situation in our various operating segments. although the retail industry as a whole is highly fragmented, certain segments of the retail industry are currently undergoing some consolidation, which could result in increased competition and significantly alter the dynamics of the retail marketplace. such consolidation may result in competitors with greatly improved financial resources, improved access to merchandise, greater market penetration than they previously enjoyed and other improvements in their competitive positions. such business combinations could result in the provision of a wider variety of products and services at competitive prices by such consolidated companies, which could adversely affect our financial performance. risks associated with the suppliers from whom our products are sourced and the safety of those products could adversely affect our financial performance. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international suppliers. global sourcing of many of the products we sell is an important factor in our financial performance. all of our suppliers must comply with applicable laws, including labor and environmental laws, and otherwise be certified as meeting our required supplier standards of conduct. our ability to find qualified suppliers who meet our standards and to access products in a timely and efficient manner is a significant challenge, especially with respect to suppliers located and goods sourced outside the united states. political and economic instability in the countries in which foreign suppliers are located, the financial instability of suppliers, suppliers failure to meet our supplier standards, labor problems experienced by our suppliers, the availability of raw materials to suppliers, merchandise quality issues, currency exchange rates, transportation availability and cost, transportation security, inflation and other factors relating to the suppliers and the countries in which they are located are beyond our control. in addition, the united states foreign trade policies, tariffs and other impositions on imported goods, trade sanctions imposed on certain countries, the limitation on the importation of certain types of goods or of goods containing certain materials from other countries and other factors relating to foreign trade are beyond our control. these and other factors affecting our suppliers and our access to products could adversely affect our financial performance. our customers count on us to provide them with safe products. concerns regarding the safety of food and non-food products that we source from our suppliers and then sell could cause shoppers to avoid purchasing certain products from us or to seek alternative sources of supply for all of their food and non-food needs, even if the basis for the concern is outside of our control. any lost confidence on the part of our customers would be difficult and costly to reestablish. as such, any issue regarding the safety of any food and non-food items we sell, regardless of the cause, could adversely affect our financial performance. our walmart international operations subject us to risks associated with the legislative, judicial, accounting, regulatory, political and economic risks and conditions specific to the countries or regions in which we operate, which could adversely affect our financial performance. we currently conduct operations in 12 countries in africa, argentina, brazil, canada, chile, china, 5 countries in central america, japan, mexico and the united kingdom, as well as through joint venture agreements in china and india and our other controlled subsidiaries in china. during fiscal 2012, our walmart international operations generated approximately 28% of our net sales. as a result of our expansion activities in countries outside the united states, we expect that our walmart international operations could account for a larger portion of our net sales in future years. our future operating results in these countries or in other countries or regions throughout the world could be negatively affected by a variety of factors, most of which are beyond our control. these factors include political conditions, including political instability, economic conditions, legal and regulatory constraints, trade policies, both of the united states and of the other countries in which we operate, currency regulations, and other matters in any of the countries or regions in which we operate, now or in the future. foreign currency exchange rates and fluctuations may have an impact on our future costs or on future cash flows from our walmart international operations, and could adversely affect our financial performance. moreover, the economies of some of the countries in which we have operations have in the past suffered from high rates of inflation and currency devaluations, which, if they occurred again, could adversely affect our financial performance. other factors which may impact our walmart international operations include foreign trade, monetary and fiscal policies both of the united states and of other countries, laws, regulations and other activities of foreign governments, agencies and similar organizations, and risks associated with having numerous facilities located in countries which have historically been less stable than the united states. additional risks inherent in our walmart international operations generally include, among others, the costs and difficulties of managing international operations, adverse tax consequences and greater difficulty in enforcing intellectual property rights in countries other than the united states. the various risks inherent in doing business in the united states generally also exist when doing business outside of the united states, and may be exaggerated by the difficulty of doing business in numerous sovereign jurisdictions due to differences in culture, laws and regulations. 15 natural disasters and geo-political events could adversely affect our financial performance. the occurrence of one or more natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, floods, earthquakes, tsunamis, weather conditions such as major or extended winter storms, droughts and tornados, whether as a result of climate change or otherwise, severe changes in climate and geo-political events, such as civil unrest or terrorist attacks in a country in which we operate or in which our suppliers are located could adversely affect our operations and financial performance. such events could result in physical damage to, or the complete loss of, one or more of our properties, the closure of one or more stores, clubs and distribution centers, the lack of an adequate work force in a market, the inability of customers and our associates to reach or have transportation to our stores and clubs directly affected by such events, the evacuation of the populace from areas in which our stores, clubs and distributions centers are located, changes in the purchasing patterns of consumers and in consumers disposable income, the temporary or long-term disruption in the supply of products from some local and overseas suppliers, the disruption in the transport of goods from overseas, the disruption or delay in the delivery of goods to our distribution centers or stores within a country in which we are operating, the reduction in the availability of products in our stores, the disruption of utility services to our stores and our facilities, and disruption in our communications with our stores. these events and their impacts could otherwise disrupt and adversely affect our operations in the areas in which these types of events occur, such as the march 2011 earthquake and tsunami in japan, and could adversely affect our financial performance. in light of the substantial premiums payable for insurance coverage for losses caused by certain natural disasters, such as hurricanes, cyclones, typhoons, tropical storms, earthquakes, floods and tsunamis in the current insurance market, as well as the limitations on available coverage for such losses, we have chosen to be primarily self-insured with respect to such losses. although we maintain certain specific coverages for losses from physical damages in excess of certain amounts to guard against catastrophic losses suffered from such causes, we still bear the risk of losses that would be incurred as a result of any physical damage to, or the destruction of, any stores, clubs and distribution centers, loss or spoilage of inventory, and business interruption caused by any such events below catastrophic levels of coverage, as well as in the event of a catastrophe, in excess of the aggregate limits of applicable coverages. we are subject to certain legal proceedings that may adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are involved in a number of legal proceedings, which include consumer, employment, tort and other litigation. certain of these lawsuits, if decided adversely to us or settled by us, may result in liability material to our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. we are currently a defendant in numerous cases containing class-action allegations in which the plaintiffs have brought claims under federal and state wage and hour laws. in addition, we are a defendant in dukes v. wal-mart stores, inc. , which was commenced as a class-action lawsuit in june 2001 in the united states district court for the northern district of california, asserting that the company had engaged in a pattern and practice of discriminating against women in promotions, pay, training, and job assignments, and seeking, among other things, injunctive relief, front pay, back pay, punitive damages, and attorneys fees. on june 21, 2004, the u.s. district court issued an order granting in part and denying in part the plaintiffs motion for class certification. as defined by the u.s. district court, the class included [a]ll women employed at any wal-mart domestic retail store at any time since december 26, 1998, who have been or may be subjected to wal-mart challenged pay and management track promotions policies and practices. the company appealed the order to the ninth circuit court of appeals and subsequently to the united states supreme court. on june 20, 2011, the supreme court issued an opinion decertifying the class and remanding the case to the district court. on october 27, 2011, the plaintiffs attorneys filed an amended complaint proposing a class of current and former female associates at the company california retail facilities, and the company filed a motion to dismiss on january 13, 2012. on october 28, 2011, the plaintiffs attorneys filed a complaint in the united states district court for the northern district of texas entitled odle v. wal-mart stores, inc. , proposing a class of current and former female associates at the company texas retail facilities and asserting claims and relief similar to those in the dukes case. the company filed a motion to dismiss on march 5, 2012. we discuss this case and other litigation to which we are a party in greater detail below under the caption item 3. legal proceedings and in note 11 in the notes to consolidated financial statements, which are part of our annual report to shareholders, which are incorporated by reference in this annual report on form 10-k and are included as an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k. 16 if we do not maintain the security of information relating to our customers, associates and vendors, security information breaches through cybersecurity attacks or otherwise could damage our reputation with customers, associates and vendors, and we could incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. as do most retailers, we receive certain personal information about our customers, and we also receive personal information concerning our associates and vendors. in addition, our online operations at www.walmart.com , www.samsclub.com and other websites depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks, including information permitting cashless payments. we maintain security measures with respect to such information, but despite these measures, we may be vulnerable to security breaches by computer hackers and others that attempt to penetrate the security measures that we have in place. a compromise of our security systems (through cyber-attacks or otherwise which are rapidly evolving and sophisticated) that results in personal information being obtained by unauthorized persons could adversely affect our reputation with our customers, associates, and vendors, as well as our operations, results of operations, financial condition and liquidity, and could result in litigation against us or the imposition of penalties. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend significant additional resources related to our information security systems and could result in a disruption of our operations, particularly our online sales operations. we rely extensively on computer systems to process transactions, summarize results and manage our business. disruptions in both our primary and secondary (back-up) systems could harm our ability to run our business. although we have independent, redundant and physically separate primary and secondary computer systems, given the number of individual transactions we have each year, it is critical that we maintain uninterrupted operation of our business-critical computer systems. our computer systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches (through cyber-attacks from computer hackers and sophisticated organizations), catastrophic events such as fires, tornadoes and hurricanes, and usage errors by our associates. if our computer systems and our back-up systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly, we may have to make a significant investment to repair or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. any material interruption in both of our computer systems and back-up systems may have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operations. in addition, we are pursuing complex initiatives to transform our information technology processes and systems, which will include, for many of our computer systems, establishing common processes across our lines of business. the risk of system disruption is increased when significant system changes are undertaken, although we believe that our change management process will mitigate this risk. if we fail to integrate our computer systems and processes we may fail to realize the cost savings anticipated to be derived from these initiatives. we may not timely identify or effectively respond to consumer trends, which could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services, and our market share. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. the success of our business depends in part on our ability to identify and respond to evolving trends in demographics and consumer preferences. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers, the demand for our products and services and our market share. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk the information required by this item is incorporated by reference to all information under the sub-caption market risk under the caption management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations included in our annual report to shareholders. such information is included in an exhibit to this annual report on form 10-k.