risk factors 7 risk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. reductions in third party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could adversely affect our results of operations. the substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. the continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, governmental agencies, and other third party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. in the united states, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in january and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. in addition, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. - 7 - table of contents in the united states, certain provisions of the deficit reduction act of 2005 sought to reduce federal spending by altering amp (the medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs). while those reductions did not go into effect, the aca, which was signed into law on march 23, 2010, enacted a modified amp reimbursement formula for multi-source drugs that significantly affects reimbursement calculations. the modified formula, when implemented, is expected to reduce medicaid reimbursements, which could adversely affect our results of operations. the centers for medicare and medicaid services ( cms ) is preparing to use the modified reimbursement formula to calculate a u.s. federal ceiling on reimbursement rates for multi-source drugs to pharmacies under the medicaid program, and posts draft federal upper limit ( ful ) reimbursement files on the cms website that are calculated based on the requirements of the health reform legislation. as of the date of this report, these draft ful files are for review and comment only; however, cms has announced that it plans to publish final fuls after a period of releasing them in draft format. cms has issued proposed regulations to implement the aca's provisions regarding medicaid reimbursement to pharmacies, but to date the regulations have not been finalized. there have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce medicare part d and medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. many payers in the united states are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. for example, cms now makes national average drug acquisition cost data, which reflect retail community pharmacy invoice costs, publicly available on a regular basis. cms has indicated that state medicaid agencies can use this information to compare their own reimbursement and pricing methodologies and rates to those derived from the survey data. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. a shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. a shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. our retail pharmacy usa division continued to experience a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in fiscal 2015 and that trend is expected to continue in fiscal 2016. our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions. additionally, we have accepted lower reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with medicare part d plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. if we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs. new brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales revenues, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales revenues, but higher gross profit margins. accordingly, a decrease in the number of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. generic drug inflation could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the united states. overall increases in the amounts we pay to procure generic drugs, commonly referred to as generic drug inflation, could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, including particularly those of our retail pharmacy usa division. our gross profit margins would be adversely affected by generic inflation to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. we experienced a shift from historical patterns of deflation in generic drug costs to inflation in fiscal 2014, when we experienced cost increases on a subset of generic drugs that in some cases were significant. this generic inflation continued with respect to certain generic drugs in fiscal 2015. any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. - 8 - table of contents we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed by pharmacy benefit management companies. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by pbm companies. pbm companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. there can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular pbm company's pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period. if our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large pbm companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. if we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the pbm company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. in addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pbm companies and health insurance companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. for example, in july 2015, optumrx, unitedhealth group's pharmacy care services business, completed its combination with catamaran corporation, with the combined businesses expected to fulfill over one billion prescriptions in 2015 and be the third largest pbm company in the united states. in addition, significant business combinations within the health insurance industry were announced in july 2015, with anthem, inc. announcing its agreement to acquire cigna corporation, and aetna, inc. announcing its agreement to acquire humana inc., with the resulting enterprises expected to be two of the three largest health insurers in the united states. if this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. if these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs. strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also impact our businesses and competitive positioning. for example, following the announcement of our agreement with amerisourcebergen providing for, among other things, generic drug purchasing by walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen through wbad, our global sourcing enterprise, some of our retail pharmacy competitors subsequently established relationships with other pharmaceutical drug wholesalers relating to generic drug procurement. in addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to increased generic drug inflation in the future. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances among the industry participants we engage with, and which may materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we may not be able to successfully or timely complete the pending acquisition of rite aid. risks and uncertainties related to our pending acquisition of rite aid include, among others: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement including the failure of rite aid to obtain the approval of its stockholders of the transaction; that regulatory or other approvals required for the transaction are not obtained; that litigation may be filed which could prevent or delay the transaction; and that uncertainty regarding the transaction may adversely affect our and rite aid's relationships with suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties with which we or rite aid do business. completion of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the merger agreement, including the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods (and any extensions thereof) under the hart-scott- rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, approval of the transaction by rite aid stockholders, no material adverse effect having occurred with respect to rite aid prior to the closing of the transaction and other customary conditions. we will be unable to complete the pending acquisition of rite aid until each of the conditions to closing is either satisfied or waived. in deciding whether or not to object to the transaction, regulatory agencies have broad discretion in administering the applicable governing regulations. as a condition to their approval of the transaction, these agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of our business after consummation of the transaction. these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions may reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction or affect our results of operations after the closing of the transaction. further, we can provide no assurance that we will obtain the necessary approvals or that any such conditions that are imposed would not diminish the anticipated benefits of the transaction or result in the termination of the transaction. in the event that the transaction is not completed due to the failure to obtain antitrust clearance, we could be required to pay rite aid a termination fee of $325 million or $650 million in certain circumstances. while our acquisition of rite aid is pending, it creates uncertainty that may adversely affect our business and results of operations, including with respect to our relationships with suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties with which we do business. further, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the pending transaction, as well as the diversion of management resources, for which we will receive little or no benefit if the closing of the transaction does not occur. if we complete our pending acquisition of rite aid, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction which could adversely impact our results of operations. we entered into the merger agreement with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. the achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether rite aid's business can be integrated into ours in an efficient and effective manner. if the rite aid transaction is completed, we can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction , including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all; the costs or difficulties related to the integration of rite aid's business and operations into ours will not be greater than expected; unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction; litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed; we will be able to retain key personnel; and the transaction will not cause disruption to the parties' business and operations and relationships with employees and suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties with which we do business. if one or more of these risks are realized, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our acquisition of alliance boots may not be realized. walgreens and alliance boots entered into the purchase and option agreement dated june 18, 2012, as amended on august 5, 2014 (as amended, the purchase and option agreement ), and consummated the first and second step transactions contemplated thereby, with the expectation that the transactions would result in various benefits including, among other things, procurement cost savings and operating efficiencies, revenue synergies, increased innovation, sharing of best practices, and a strengthened market position that may serve as a platform for future growth. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly, and time consuming, and we have not previously completed a transaction comparable in size or scope. many of the expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately. achieving the expected benefits of the alliance boots transaction is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including, without limitation, whether unique corporate cultures will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, the coordination of geographically separate organizations, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. prior to the alliance boots acquisition on december 31, 2014, alliance boots was a privately-held company and was not subject to the information and reporting requirements of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended and other federal securities laws, and the compliance obligations of the sarbanes-oxley act of 2002. compliance with these new obligations as a result of alliance boots becoming a part of a public company has required and may continue to require significant resources and management attention, and any failure to comply could have a material adverse effect on us. in addition, some current and prospective employees may experience uncertainty about their roles within the combined company, which may adversely affect our ability to retain or recruit key managers and other employees. we could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances, such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues existing or arising with respect to the business of alliance boots or otherwise resulting from the transaction. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have incurred significant transaction costs related to the acquisition and have incurred and will continue to incur integration and related costs as we integrate the alliance boots businesses. these integration and acquisition-related costs, including legal, accounting, financial and tax advisory and other fees and costs, may be higher than expected and some of these costs may be material. - 9 - table of contents our operations outside of the united states subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. together with our equity method investments, we had a presence in over 25 countries as of august 31, 2015. the strategic combination with alliance boots in december 2014 greatly increased the importance of international business to our operations, growth and prospects as, historically, substantially all of walgreens' business operations had been conducted within the united states and its territories. a substantial portion of alliance boots' revenues are generated in the european union and neighboring countries, and substantially all of alliance boots' revenues are generated outside the united states. our international business operations are subject to a number of risks, including: compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; additional u.s. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws; potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; price controls imposed by foreign countries; tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries; potential adverse tax consequences, including tax withholding laws and policies and restrictions on repatriation of funds to the united states; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including uncertainty regarding the euro; impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the united states, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. these factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. we cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation or financial condition. our significant operations outside of the united states also expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses' functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we present our financial statements in u.s. dollars and, since the completion of the strategic combination with alliance boots in december 2014, have had a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-u.s. dollar currencies, primarily british pounds sterling and the euro, as well as a range of emerging market currencies. our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. - 10 - table of contents we may from time to time, in some instances enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us. additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency borrowings to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. the periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and achieve cost savings initiatives. in april 2015, our board of directors approved a plan to implement the cost transformation program described in md&amp;a in part ii, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of this program. our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in our cost transformation program and other business optimization initiatives. if we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, our financial results could be adversely impacted. our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. the loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, the supplier's financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our retail pharmacy usa division. on march 19, 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between walgreens and amerisourcebergen pursuant to which walgreens sources branded and generic pharmaceutical products from amerisourcebergen; an agreement which provides amerisourcebergen the ability to access generics and related pharmaceutical products through wbad, a global sourcing enterprise established by walgreens and alliance boots; and agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in amerisourcebergen and gain associated representation on amerisourcebergen's board of directors in certain circumstances. as of the date of this report, amerisourcebergen distributes for our retail pharmacy usa division all branded pharmaceutical products that walgreens historically sourced from suppliers and distributors as well as substantially all generic pharmaceutical products that walgreens previously self-distributed. consequently, our business in the united states may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that amerisourcebergen experiences. for example, if amerisourcebergen's operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the united states and our results of operations. our distribution agreement with amerisourcebergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or amerisourcebergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. if such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include resuming self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any expiration or termination would be temporary. however, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. - 11 - table of contents the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with amerisourcebergen may not be realized. walgreens entered into the arrangement with amerisourcebergen and alliance boots with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would result in various benefits including, among other things, procurement cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. many of the anticipated synergies and expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits and synergies, whether unique corporate cultures of separate organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. in addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework agreement dated as of march 18, 2013 by and among the company, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen (the framework agreement ) to invest in the equity of amerisourcebergen. there can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in amerisourcebergen, or exercise our warrants to acquire amerisourcebergen common stock when they are exercisable, or that if completed, that such investments will ultimately be profitable. if such investments are completed and the price of amerisourcebergen common stock subsequently declines substantially, we could experience a loss on or impairment of such investment, which could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the framework agreement. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control, including our investment in amerisourcebergen. some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. from time to time, we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. for example, while we beneficially own approximately 5% of the outstanding common stock and have a designee serving on the board of directors of amerisourcebergen, we do not and will not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. although the businesses in which we have made non-controlling investments often have a significant health and daily living or prescription drug component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. from time to time, we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. the completion of the second step transaction increased our and our stockholders' effective interest in certain equity method investments and other investments of alliance boots over which alliance boots does not exercise control. we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. these conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. external factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, levels of personal disposable income, and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending. in addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. all of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. - 12 - table of contents european economic conditions together with austerity measures being taken by certain european governments could adversely affect us. the acquisition of alliance boots significantly increased our assets and operations within europe and, accordingly, our exposure to economic conditions in europe. a further slowdown within the european economy could affect our businesses in europe by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in addition, in many european countries, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility, and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. in recent years, in response to the economic environment and financial crisis in europe, a number of european governments have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending and constrain overall government expenditures. these measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. countries with existing austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. in addition, european governments that have not yet imposed austerity measures may impose them in the future. any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations. the industries in which we operate are highly competitive. the level of competition among retail pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesalers is high. changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors, could materially and adversely impact us. our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order prescription providers and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. competition may also come from other sources in the future. as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. for example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our pharmaceutical wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms. any failure to anticipate and timely and appropriately respond to evolving market conditions could result in decreased revenue and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. if the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. the success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, a quality assortment of available merchandise, and superior customer service. we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. if we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. in addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. - 13 - table of contents our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. in addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. we seek to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the expanded offering of boots no7 and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers and typically provide us with higher gross margins than comparable national brand products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. an increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases online. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations. we may be constrained if we are unable to find suitable new store locations at acceptable prices or by the terms of our current leases. our ability to grow our retail pharmacy businesses may be constrained if suitable new store locations cannot be identified with lease terms or purchase prices that are acceptable to us. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing our stores. the termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. we may experience a significant disruption in our computer systems. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. in addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and infrastructure, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. while we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and believe we are taking reasonable action to mitigate known risks, there can be no assurance that these technology initiatives will be deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without disruption to our operations. we also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of key payers or vendors. - 14 - table of contents if we do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, we could damage our reputation, suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. in addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations in the united states and in other countries in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. some foreign data privacy regulations are more stringent than those in the united states. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. if we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to additional litigation and regulatory risks. our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, apple pay and gift cards, and we may offer new payment options over time. acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. these requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over time and raise our operating costs. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. if these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. the payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. in addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. - 15 - table of contents our growth strategy is partially dependent upon acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investments, some of which may not prove to be successful. we have grown, in part, through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our growth strategies. acquisitions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in integrating the operations and personnel of the acquired companies, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. any failure to select suitable acquisitions at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. these transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to unknown liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. no assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic investments will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare and medicaid funding in the united states and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding at the state or federal level for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. the aca was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. while certain provisions of the aca have already taken effect, others have delayed effective dates or require further rulemaking action or regulatory guidance by governmental agencies to implement and/or finalize. as a result, there remains considerable uncertainty as to the full impact of aca on our business operations. future rulemaking or other regulatory actions under the aca or otherwise could increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. we cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. a significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. we operate in a complex, highly regulated environment in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country, and state registration and regulation of pharmacies; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including hipaa; the aca; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and drug enforcement administration ( dea ), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing the practice of the profession of pharmacy. for example, in the united states the dea, fda and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the controlled substance act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity. in addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party's intellectual property rights. - 16 - table of contents changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall or personal injury issues. we could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labelling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. through our pharmacies, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we provide. errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims. we also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. damage to our reputation in the event of a product liability or personal injury issue or judgment against us or a product recall could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. as of august 31, 2015, we had approximately $14.4 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term borrowings. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions; making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. - 17 - table of contents we may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. for example, we incurred significant additional debt in connection with the second step transaction. further, we intend to finance our pending acquisition of rite aid through a combination of cash on hand and debt financing. we have entered into a bridge facility commitment letter and expect to obtain permanent financing to replace such bridge facility prior to the closing of the transaction, but cannot guarantee that we will obtain such permanent financing on terms that are acceptable to us or at all. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii , item 7 below and note 21, subsequent event, to our consolidated financial statements in part ii , item 8 below. if we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. we also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. in addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. if we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. this could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. our credit ratings and ability to access well-functioning capital markets are important to us. historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. the major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. we aim to maintain investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. however, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. incurrence of additional debt by us, including, if the pending acquisition of rite aid is completed, outstanding rite aid indebtedness we acquire upon closing and any additional debt we issue in connection with the financing of the transaction, could adversely affect our credit ratings. any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. as a holding company, walgreens boots alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. walgreens boots alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. its only significant asset is the outstanding capital stock of its subsidiaries. as a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including walgreens and alliance boots, to meet its obligations. additionally, walgreens boots alliance's subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to walgreens boots alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of walgreens boots alliance common stock. credit facilities and other debt obligations of walgreens boots alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of walgreens boots alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to, seasonality; the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairments; the relative magnitude of our lifo provision in any particular quarter; fluctuations in the value of our warrants to acquire amerisourcebergen common stock; foreign currency fluctuations; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. - 18 - table of contents our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (december, january and february) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. we purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. this could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. we could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. generally accepted accounting principles and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. for example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the company's reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, including investments held by our equity method investees, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit. factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested or the investments held by those companies include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries they operate in. new accounting guidance also may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or change our financial statements. for example, implementing future accounting guidance related to leases, revenue and other areas impacted by the current convergence project between the financial accounting standards board and the international accounting standards board could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems, and could result in adverse changes to our financial statements. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. as of august 31, 2015, we had $28.7 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets (based on the preliminary purchase accounting for the alliance boots acquisition), a significant increase over the $3.5 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets we had as of august 31, 2014. we accounted for the second step transaction using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with gaap, with the purchase price paid allocated to recognize the acquired assets and liabilities at their fair value. at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value as defined by gaap, we will evaluate this goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, unanticipated changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. we operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. we are involved in legal proceedings and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities arising in the course of our businesses, including those contained in note 13, commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. legal proceedings, in general, and securities and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. from time to time, we are also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. we cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. as a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. the outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources. - 19 - table of contents we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. in addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. as the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. from time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. in addition, tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations. any change in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations, any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments and results of operations. our insurance programs may expose us to unexpected costs. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers' liability; and employee healthcare benefits. provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. we operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the united kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010. the valuation of the pension plan's assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. this valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. - 20 - table of contents certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of august 31, 2015, affiliates of stefano pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer (the sp investors ), and affiliates of kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. l.p. ( kkr , and together with certain of its affiliates, the kkr investors ) together had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 20.2% of our outstanding common stock, based on filings by such persons with the sec. this total includes the approximately 12.8% of our outstanding common stock (as of august 31, 2015) held by sprint acquisitions holdings limited (f/k/a ab acquisitions holdings limited) ( sprint acquisitions ), which is jointly controlled by mr. pessina (indirectly through controlled entities) and the kkr investors, which could be distributed to the various shareholders of sprint acquisitions (including the sp investors and the kkr investors) in fiscal 2016 as described below. the sp investors and the kkr investors have agreed to, for so long as the sp investors and the kkr investors (as applicable) have the right to designate a nominee for election to the board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the company's stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). whether or not subject to these voting provisions, the sp investors' and/or the kkr investors' significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. the influence of the sp investors and/or the kkr investors could result in our taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. shares issued to alliance boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots are or soon will be eligible for future sale. in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots, we issued a total of approximately 227.7 million shares of our common stock to former alliance boots shareholders. these shares represented approximately 20.9% of our outstanding shares as of august 31, 2015. we also entered into, on august 2, 2012, a shareholders agreement (the company shareholders agreement ) with certain of the sp investors and the kkr investors that imposed certain contractual restrictions that generally prohibited them from transferring these shares of our common stock for specified time periods. these transfer restrictions have now lapsed. however, unless the sp investors and the kkr investors have elected to put certain guarantees in place, the purchase and option agreement prohibits sprint acquisitions from distributing more than 10% of the shares of our common stock it received on completion of the second step transaction to its investors until december 31, 2015. accordingly, subject to these provisions of the purchase and option agreement and certain obligations pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, these shares may now be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), depending on the holding period and subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates. the company shareholders agreement also contains registration rights that would obligate us, in certain instances, to file future registration statements under the securities act covering resales of these shares or to permit a piggyback on a future registration statement. a sale, or the perception that a sale may occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of our largest stockholder. as of august 31, 2015, sprint acquisitions was the holder of approximately 12.8% of our outstanding common stock. sprint acquisitions is jointly controlled by stefano pessina (indirectly through controlled entities) and the kkr investors. mr. pessina is our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, and mr. dominic murphy is both a partner of kkr and one of our directors. additionally, each of marco pagni, our executive vice president, global chief legal and administrative officer, and ornella barra, our executive vice president, president and chief executive, global wholesale and international retail, serves as a director of sprint acquisitions and/or its affiliates. this overlap could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest, when our interests diverge with those of sprint acquisitions and/or its affiliates. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the company and sprint acquisitions in connection with indemnification or other provisions of the purchase and option agreement or the company shareholders agreement. potential conflicts of interest could also arise in connection with any current or future arrangements between the company and sprint acquisitions or any of their respective affiliates. while our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties' conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. - 21 - table of contents our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our board or impede a takeover. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. these provisions include the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by the board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. we are also subject to the provisions of section 203 of the dgcl, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. under the company shareholders agreement, each of the sp investors and the kkr investors, respectively, is entitled to designate one nominee to the board (currently stefano pessina for the sp investors and dominic murphy for the kkr investors) for so long as the sp investors and the kkr investors, respectively, continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors and the kkr investors have agreed that, for so long as each has the right to designate a nominee to the board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). in addition, pursuant to an agreement (the nomination and support agreement ) with jana partners llc ( jana ) whereby, among other things, barry rosenstein of jana was appointed to the board, jana and its affiliates and controlled associates are subject to certain standstill restrictions until the date that is 15 days after mr. rosenstein is no longer a member of the board (subject to certain conditions and limitations). these standstill restrictions include, among other things, that jana and its affiliates and controlled associates will vote their shares in favor of all incumbent directors nominated by the board and in accordance with the recommendations of the board on other matters, other than certain matters specified in the nomination and support agreement. while these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. see also the risk factor captioned certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval above. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition to the other risk factors identified in this item 1a, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by walgreens boots alliance or by any securities analysts that might cover walgreens boots alliance; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and issuances or sales of walgreens boots alliance common stock, including sales of shares by its directors and officers or its key investors, including the sp investors and the kkr investors. - 22 - table of contents there are a number of additional business risks that could adversely affect our businesses and financial results. many other factors could adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales or sales margins could be negatively affected. our operating costs may be subject to increases outside the control of our businesses, whether due to inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise. our success depends on our continued ability to attract and retain store and management and professional personnel, and the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flow. natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can impact our operations or damage our facilities in affected areas or have an adverse impact on consumer confidence levels and spending on our products and services. the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. if negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damage our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of our vendors or strategic allies, our businesses may suffer. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 48 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing debt issuances. primary exposures include u.s. treasury rates, libor and commercial paper rates. from time to time, we use interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of our financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt. generally under these swaps, we agree with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. we also use interest rate caps to protect from rising interest rates on existing floating-rate debt. information regarding our interest rate swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps, and interest rate caps transactions are set forth in note 11, financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. these financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. on august 31, 2015, we had approximately $3 billion in debt obligations that had floating interest rates. a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates for the various debt held by the company would increase or decrease the annual interest expense we recognize and the cash we pay for interest expense by approximately $30 million. this amount excludes the impact of any associated interest rate swaps, forward starting interest rate swaps and interest rate caps. foreign currency exchange rate risk as a result of the second step transaction, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the british pound sterling and euro, and certain other foreign currencies, including the mexican peso, chilean peso, norwegian krone and turkish lira will affect the company's net investment in foreign subsid iaries and will cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. we are also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the u.s. dollar. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows of certain entities denominated in foreign currencies. these transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. in addition, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions ) . as circumstances warrant, we also use basis swaps as hedging instruments to hedge portions of our net investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. a 1% increase or decrease in exchange rates would increase or decrease our pre-tax income by approximately $3 million due to changes in the value of foreign currency instruments. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to partially hedge. equity price risk changes in amerisourcebergen common stock price and equity volatility may have a significant impact on the value of the warrants to acquire amerisourcebergen common stock described in note 11, financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. as of august 31, 2015, a one dollar change in amerisourcebergen's common stock would, holding other factors constant, increase or decrease the fair value of the company's warrants by $45 million. additionally, the company holds an investment in amerisourcebergen common stock. as of august 31, 2015, a one dollar change in amerisourcebergen common stock would increase or decrease the fair value of the company's investment by $11 million. - 48 - table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. reductions in third party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. the continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, governmental agencies, and other third party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. changes in political, economic and regulatory influences also may significantly affect healthcare financing and prescription drug reimbursement practices. in the united states, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in january and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. in addition, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. - 8 - table of contents in the united states, for example, certain provisions of the aca, which was signed into law on march 23, 2010, enacted, subject to rulemaking, a modified average manufacturer price (used in the medicaid rebate and reimbursement formula for multi-source drugs) and in january 2016 the centers for medicare and medicaid services finalized a rule implementing the modified amp as well as a requirement that medicaid reimburse pharmacies at actual acquisition cost rather than estimated acquisition cost. these changes, which states had until may 2016 to implement, generally are expected to reduce medicaid reimbursements and adversely affect our operating results. there have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce medicare part d and medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. in addition, many payers in the united states are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. it is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third party payers, could adversely affect us. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in many countries in europe and elsewhere, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuous. a shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. a shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. our retail pharmacy usa division continued to experience a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in fiscal 2016 and that trend may continue in fiscal 2017. our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions. our retail pharmacy usa division also experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards medicare part d prescriptions in fiscal 2016, and we expect that trend to continue in fiscal 2017. preferred medicare part d networks have increased in number in recent years ; however, we do not participate in all such networks. we have accepted lower reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with medicare part d plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. we also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in the pharmacy provider networks they offer. if we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, or if the degree or terms of our participation in such preferred networks declines from current levels in future years, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs. new brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, or delays in their introduction, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our projections. - 9 - table of contents we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed by pharmacy benefit management companies. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by pbm companies. pbm companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. there can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular pbm company's pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period. if our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large pbm companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. if we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the pbm company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. in addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pbm companies and health insurance companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. for example, in july 2015, optumrx, unitedhealth group's pharmacy care services business, completed its combination with catamaran corporation, with the combined businesses becoming the third largest pbm company in the united states. in addition, significant business combinations within the health insurance industry are currently pending, including the transactions contemplated by anthem, inc.'s agreement to acquire cigna corporation, and aetna, inc.'s agreement to acquire humana inc. if these pending transactions are completed, the resulting enterprises are expected to be two of the three largest health insurers in the united states. if this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. if these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs. new partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. for example, following the announcement of our agreement with amerisourcebergen providing for, among other things, generic drug purchasing through wbad, our global sourcing enterprise, some of our retail pharmacy competitors subsequently established relationships with other pharmaceutical drug wholesalers relating to generic drug procurement. in addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances. a significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. we have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. there can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources therein. acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in successfully integrating the operations and personnel, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. any failure to select suitable opportunities at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. these transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments also involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to assumed litigation and unknown environmental and other liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. no assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a timely and effective manner, our business operations and growth strategies could be negatively affected. - 10 - table of contents we may not be able to successfully or timely complete the pending acquisition of rite aid. risks and uncertainties related to our pending acquisition of rite aid include, among others: the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could give rise to the termination of the merger agreement including that regulatory or other approvals required for the transaction are not obtained; that litigation may be filed which could prevent or delay the transaction; and that uncertainty regarding the transaction may adversely affect our and rite aid's relationships with suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties with which we or rite aid do business. completion of the transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain conditions set forth in the merger agreement, including the expiration or termination of applicable waiting periods (and any extensions thereof) under the hart-scott-rodino antitrust improvements act of 1976, as amended, no material adverse effect having occurred with respect to rite aid prior to the closing of the transaction, and other customary conditions. we will be unable to complete the pending acquisition of rite aid until each of the conditions to closing is either satisfied or waived. in deciding whether or not to object to the transaction, regulatory agencies have broad discretion in administering the applicable governing regulations. as a condition to their approval of the transaction, these agencies may impose requirements, limitations or costs or require divestitures or place restrictions on the conduct of our business after consummation of the transaction. these requirements, limitations, costs, divestitures or restrictions may be burdensome to complete, increase our costs, reduce the anticipated benefits of the transaction and materially and adversely affect our results of operations after the closing of the transaction. we can provide no assurance that we will obtain the necessary approvals on any particular timetable or at all, or that any such conditions that are imposed would not diminish the anticipated benefits of the transaction or result in the termination of the transaction. in the event that the transaction is not completed due to the failure to obtain antitrust clearance, we could be required to pay rite aid a termination fee of $325 million or $650 million in certain circumstances. while our acquisition of rite aid is pending, it creates uncertainty that may adversely affect our and rite aid's respective businesses and results of operations, including with respect to relationships with suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the pending transaction, as well as the diversion of management resources, for which we will receive little or no benefit if the closing of the transaction does not occur. further, in the event that such merger is not consummated on or prior to june 1, 2017 or if the merger agreement is terminated at any time on or prior to june 1, 2017, then we would be required to redeem $3.5 billion aggregate principal amount of notes of various interest rates and maturities on the date described in the applicable note at a redemption price equal to 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes to be redeemed, plus accrued and unpaid interest to, but excluding, the date of redemption. see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations liquidity and capital resources for additional information if we complete our pending acquisition of rite aid, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the transaction, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we entered into the merger agreement to acquire rite aid with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. the achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether rite aid's business can be integrated into ours in an efficient and effective manner, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. if the rite aid transaction is completed, we can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all; the costs or difficulties related to the integration of rite aid's business and operations into ours will not be greater than expected; unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction; litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed; we will be able to retain key personnel; and the transaction will not cause disruption to the parties' business and operations and relationships with employees and suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. if one or more of these risks are realized, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. - 11 - table of contents we could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances, such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues existing or arising with respect to the business of rite aid or otherwise resulting from the transaction. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention, which could adversely impact our agility to respond to market opportunities and our ability to timely identify and implement other strategic actions. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have incurred significant transaction costs related to the acquisition and, if the pending transaction is consummated, we will continue to incur significant integration and related costs as we integrate the rite aid businesses. these integration and acquisition-related costs, including legal, accounting, financial and tax advisory and other fees and costs, may be higher than expected and some of these costs may be material. our substantial operations outside of the united states subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including: compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; additional u.s. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws; potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; price controls imposed by foreign countries; tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets; potential adverse tax consequences, including tax withholding laws and policies and restrictions on repatriation of funds to the united states; fluctuations in currency exchange rates, including uncertainty regarding the euro; impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the united states, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. these factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. we cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition. - 12 - table of contents our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions have substantial operations in the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, which proposed exit (and the political, economic and other uncertainties it has raised) has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. negotiations on withdrawal and post-exit arrangements likely will be complex and protracted, and there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. the proposed withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other parties. further, uncertainty around these and related issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom and the other economies in which we operate. there can be no assurance that any or all of these events will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our significant operations outside of the united states expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses' functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we present our financial statements in u.s. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-u.s. dollar currencies, primarily british pounds sterling and the euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. we may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks , such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us , that could materially and adversely affect us. additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency borrowings to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. the periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. our board of directors approved the plan to implement the cost transformation program described in md&amp;a in part ii, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of this program. our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in our cost transformation program and other business optimization initiatives. if we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. the loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, the supplier's financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. - 13 - table of contents we use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our retail pharmacy usa division. in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between walgreens and amerisourcebergen pursuant to which walgreens sources branded and generic pharmaceutical products from amerisourcebergen in the u.s. and an agreement which provides amerisourcebergen the ability to access generics pharmaceutical products through wbad, our global sourcing enterprise. in may 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. in addition, in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in amerisourcebergen and gain associated representation on amerisourcebergen's board of directors in certain circumstances. as of the date of this report, amerisourcebergen distributes for our retail pharmacy usa division all branded pharmaceutical products that walgreens historically sourced from suppliers and distributors as well as substantially all generic pharmaceutical products that previously were self-distributed. consequently, our business in the united states may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that amerisourcebergen experiences. for example, if amerisourcebergen's operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the united states and our results of operations. our distribution agreement with amerisourcebergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or amerisourcebergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. if such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include resuming self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any expiration or termination would be temporary. however, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with amerisourcebergen may not be realized. we entered into the arrangement with amerisourcebergen with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would result in various benefits including, among other things, procurement cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. many of the anticipated synergies and expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits and synergies, whether unique corporate cultures of separate organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. as of august 31, 2016, we beneficially owned approximately 24% of the outstanding amerisourcebergen common stock and had designated one member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors. in addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework agreement dated as of march 18, 2013 by and among the company, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen (the framework agreement ) to acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 amerisourcebergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. there can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in amerisourcebergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable. if the price of amerisourcebergen common stock subsequently declines substantially, we could experience a loss on or impairment of such investment, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. further, our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with amerisourcebergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the framework agreement. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. - 14 - table of contents from time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control, including our investment in amerisourcebergen. some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. from time to time, we make debt or equity investments in other companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. for example, while we have a significant equity investment in amerisourcebergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of amerisourcebergen as of the date of this report, we do not and will not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. although the businesses in which we have made non-controlling investments often have a significant health and daily living or prescription drug component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. from time to time, we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. these conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. external factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending. in addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. all of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. economic conditions in europe and certain emerging market countries, together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments, could adversely affect us. we have significant assets and operations within europe and certain emerging market countries in our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions. an economic slowdown within any such markets could adversely affect our businesses in affected regions by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in recent years, in response to the economic environment, a number of governments have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending for the government-sponsored healthcare system and constrain overall government expenditures. these measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. countries with existing austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. in addition, governments that have not yet imposed austerity measures may impose them in the future. any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations. - 15 - table of contents the industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. new entrants to the market, existing competitor actions, or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us. the level of competition among retail pharmacies and pharmaceutical wholesalers is high. changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, could materially and adversely impact us. disruptive innovation by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such changes and make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order prescription providers and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. competition may also come from other sources in the future. as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. for example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our pharmaceutical wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms. we also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. for example, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the united states, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. if we are not able to compete effectively in this evolving market, it could have an adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. if the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. the success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, engaging customer service and a quality assortment of available merchandise that differentiates us from other retailers, including enhanced health and beauty product offerings. we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. if we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. in addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns and evolving demographic mixes in the markets we serve could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. in addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. we seek to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the expanded offering of no7 and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers and typically provide us with higher gross margins than comparable national brand products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. an increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition. - 16 - table of contents if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. for example, in july 2016, we announced that we would cease operations at our drugstore.com and beauty .com properties in furtherance of our omni-channel strategy and initiatives to greater focus on the development of walgreens .com in the united states . our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases online. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations. we may be constrained if we are unable to find suitable new store locations at acceptable prices or by the terms of our current leases. our ability to grow our retail pharmacy businesses may be constrained if suitable new store locations cannot be identified with lease terms or purchase prices that are acceptable to us. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and other regulations applicable to the types of stores we desire to construct may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing our stores. the termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. we may experience a significant disruption in our computer systems. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events and human error, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. in addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and infrastructure, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. while we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and believe we are taking reasonable action to mitigate known risks, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant issues with our existing systems prior to implementation, that our technology initiatives will be successfully deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without significant disruption to our operations. we also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payers and vendors. if we or the businesses we interact with do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, it could damage our reputation and we could suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and regulatory scrutiny. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. in addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses. - 17 - table of contents the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations in the united states and in other countries in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. some foreign data privacy regulations are more stringent than those in the united states and continue to change. for example, in may 2016 the general data protection regulation was formally published in the journal of the european union and comes into effect in may 2018. complying with these and other changing requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and require us to change our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business operations and operating results. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. if we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to additional litigation and regulatory risks. our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies such as apple pay , and we may offer new payment options over time. acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. these requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over time and raise our operating costs. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. if these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. the payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. in addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare and medicaid funding in the united states and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. - 18 - table of contents the aca was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. while certain provisions of the aca have already taken effect, others have delayed effective dates or require further rulemaking action or regulatory guidance by governmental agencies to implement. in addition, various market participants continue to react to these regulatory changes. as a result, there remains uncertainty as to the full impact of aca on our business operations. future rulemaking or other regulatory actions under the aca or otherwise could increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. we cannot predict the timing or impact of any future rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. a significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. we operate in complex, highly regulated environments in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country, and state registration and regulation of pharmacies and drug discount card programs; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including hipaa; the aca; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and drug enforcement administration ( dea ), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing the practice of the profession of pharmacy. for example, in the united states the dea, fda and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the controlled substance act and its accompanying regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters as well as competition and antitrust matters. in addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party's intellectual property rights. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may affect our costs of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states and the national health service in the united kingdom; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. - 19 - table of contents we could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues. we could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labelling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. through our pharmacies and specialist packaging sites, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we provide. errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals could lead to serious injury or death. product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims and judgments. we also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. we could suffer significant reputational damage and financial liability if we, or any affiliated entities, experience any of the foregoing health and safety issues or incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. as of august 31, 2016, we had approximately $19 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term borrowings. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions; making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. we may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. for example, we incurred significant additional debt in november 2014 in connection with the second step transaction and in june 2016 as part of our intended financing for the pending rite aid transaction. we will incur significant additional debt upon the closing of the pending rite aid transaction including pursuant to the 2015 credit agreements. see note 9, borrowings, to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k for additional information regarding our financing plans and arrangements. in addition, if the pending acquisition of rite aid is completed, the then-outstanding rite aid indebtedness we acquire upon closing is expected to be substantial. if we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. we also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. in addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. if we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. this could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. we could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. - 20 - table of contents we could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. the major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. we benefit from investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. however, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. incurrence of additional debt by us, including, if the pending acquisition of rite aid is completed, outstanding rite aid indebtedness we acquire upon closing and additional debt we incur in connection with the financing of the transaction, could adversely affect our credit ratings. we depend on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to our business and perform under our agreements with them. defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect us. any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. as a holding company, walgreens boots alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. walgreens boots alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. as a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including walgreens and alliance boots, to meet its obligations. additionally, walgreens boots alliance's subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to walgreens boots alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of walgreens boots alliance common stock. credit facilities and other debt obligations of walgreens boots alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of walgreens boots alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. payments to walgreens boots alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges; the relative magnitude of our lifo provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; seasonality; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (december, january and february) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. we purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. this could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. - 21 - table of contents we could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. for example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the company's reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, including investments held by our equity method investees, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit. factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested or the investments held by those companies include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries in which they operate in. new accounting guidance also may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. for example, in february 2016, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) 2016-02, leases (topic 842), which supersedes topic 840, leases. this asu, which is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2018 (fiscal 2020), seeks to increase the transparency and comparability of organizations by recognizing lease assets and lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. see, new accounting pronouncements, within note 2, summary of major accounting policies . implementing this asu, as well as other future accounting guidance such as that related to revenue and other areas impacted by the current convergence project between the fasb and the international accounting standards board could require us to make significant changes to our lease management system or other accounting systems, and could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. as of august 31, 2016, we had $25.8 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets, most of which relates to the acquisition of alliance boots completed on december 31, 2014. we accounted for the second step transaction using the purchase method of accounting in accordance with gaap, with the purchase price paid allocated to recognize the acquired assets and liabilities at their fair value. at least annually, or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate a potential impairment in the carrying value as defined by gaap, we will evaluate this goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment by first assessing qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is less than the carrying amount. estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. - 22 - table of contents we are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. we operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. we are involved in litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities arising in the course of our businesses, including those contained in note 12, commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. legal proceedings, in general, and securities and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. in addition, under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of false claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. from time to time, we are also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. we cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. as a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. the outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources. we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control, anti-money laundering and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. in addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. as the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. from time to time, legislative initiatives are proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. in addition, tax laws are complex and subject to varying interpretations and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any change in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations, any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments and results of operations. our insurance programs may expose us to unexpected costs. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers' liability; and employee healthcare benefits. provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. - 23 - table of contents we could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. we operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the united kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. the valuation of the pension plan's assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. this valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of august 31, 2016, affiliates of stefano pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer (the sp investors ), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 13 % of our outstanding common stock. the sp investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the company's stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). the sp investors' significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. the influence of the sp investors could result in our taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. shares issued to former alliance boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots are eligible for future sale. we issued a total of 227.7 million shares of our common stock to former alliance boots shareholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots, which was completed in december 2014. these shares generally may now be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the company shareholders agreement ) with certain of the sp investors and certain affiliates of kohlberg kravis roberts &amp; co. l.p. ( kkr , and together with certain of its affiliates, the kkr investors ). in february 2016, a shelf registration statement under the securities act registering an aggregate of 58.4 million shares of the kkr investors and certain other stockholders became effective upon filing with the sec. the kkr investors sold an aggregate of 30 million of the shares registered in underwritten offerings completed in may 2016 and august 2016. sales of the remaining shares available for future sale under this shelf registration statement may be made from time to time in the future, subject to certain obligations pursuant to the company shareholders agreement. in addition, the company shareholders agreement also contains registration rights that would obligate us, in certain instances, to file future registration statements under the securities act covering resales of shares issued to former alliance boots stockholders or to permit a piggyback on a future registration statement. a sale, or the perception that a sale may occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could arise between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which our directors or officers are involved. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the company and other parties to the company shareholders agreement, including the sp investors and the kkr investors. mr. pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, indirectly controls alliance sant participations s.a. ( asp ), a privately-held company which is a party to the company shareholders agreement, and he and his partner ornella barra, our co-chief operating officer, serve as directors of asp. similar potential conflicts could arise if a dispute were to arise with the kkr investors, as dominic murphy is both a partner of kkr and one of our directors. similar issues could arise in connection with other transactions in the future. while our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties' conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. - 24 - table of contents our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our board or impede a takeover. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. these provisions include the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by the board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. we are also subject to the provisions of section 203 of the dgcl, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. under the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the board (currently stefano pessina) for so long as the sp investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). while these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. see also the risk factor captioned certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval above. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition to the other risk factors identified in this item 1a, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; and issuances or sales of our common stock, including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the sp investors and the kkr investors. there are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results. many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: - 25 - table of contents if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales or sales margins could be negatively affected. our operating costs may be subject to increases outside the control of our businesses, whether due to inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise. our success depends on our ability to attract, engage and retain store, professional and management personnel, including in executive and other key strategic positions, and the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flow. natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can interrupt or otherwise adversely impact our operations or damage our facilities or those of our strategic partners, vendors and customers and have an adverse impact on consumer confidence levels and spending on our products and services. if we or our affiliates were to incur significant liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. if negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damage our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of our vendors or strategic allies, our businesses may suffer. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing debt issuances. primary exposures include libor and commercial paper rates. from time to time, we use interest rate derivative contracts including interest rate caps, interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of our financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt. generally under these swaps, we agree with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. information regarding our transactions are set forth in note 10, financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. these financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. on august 31, 2016, we had approximately $1.9 billion in long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. a one percentage point increase or decrease in interest rates on the various debt instruments we hold would increase or decrease the annual interest expense we recognize and the cash we pay for interest expense by approximately $19 million. the amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the british pound sterling and euro, and certain other foreign currencies, including the mexican peso, chilean peso, norwegian krone and turkish lira which may affect our net investment in foreign subsid iaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. we are also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the u.s. dollar. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows of certain entities denominated in foreign currencies. these transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. in addition, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions ) . as circumstances warrant, we also use basis swaps as hedging instruments to hedge portions of our net investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. a 1% increase or decrease in exchange rates would increase or decrease our pre-tax income by approximately $3 million due to changes in the value of foreign currency derivative instruments. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to partially hedge. equity price risk changes in amerisourcebergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in amerisourcebergen described in note 5, equity method investments to our consolidated financial statements. see -- amerisourcebergen corporation relationship above. - 53 - table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. reductions in third party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. the continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pbm companies, governmental agencies, and other third party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. in the united states, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in january and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. in addition, in an environment where some pbm clients utilize narrow or restricted pharmacy provider networks, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. changes in political, economic and regulatory influences also may significantly affect healthcare financing and prescription drug reimbursement practices. in the united states, for example, there have been multiple attempts through legislative action and legal challenges to repeal or amend the aca, in whole and in part. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to repeal or amend these laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a repeal or amendment and any subsequent legislation would have on our business and reimbursement levels. there have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce medicare part d and medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in many countries where we have operations, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuous and reductions in third party reimbursement levels could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, many payers in the united states are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates, such as average sales price, average manufacturer price, and actual acquisition cost. it is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. in addition, many state medicaid fee-for-service programs moved to establish pharmacy network payments on the basis of actual acquisition cost by april 1, 2017, which potentially could have an impact on reimbursement practices in other commercial and government arrangements. future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third party payers, could adversely affect us. a shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. our retail pharmacy usa division seeks to grow prescription volume while operating in a marketplace with continuous reimbursement pressure. a shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. for example, our retail pharmacy usa division has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in recent years. our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription - 9 - table of contents needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions. our retail pharmacy usa division also experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards medicare part d prescriptions in fiscal 2017, and that trend may continue. preferred medicare part d networks have increased in number in recent years; however, we do not participate in all such networks. we have accepted lower reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with medicare part d plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. we also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in the pharmacy provider networks they offer. if we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, or if the degree or terms of our participation in such preferred networks declines from current levels in future years, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs. the profitability of our pharmacy businesses depends upon the utilization of prescription drugs. utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name drugs. inflation in the price of drugs also can adversely affect utilization, particularly given the increased prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. new brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, delays in their introduction, or a decrease in the utilization of previously introduced prescription drugs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our expectations. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed by a limited number of pharmacy benefit management companies. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by a limited number of pbm companies. pbm companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. there can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular pbm company's pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period. if our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large pbm companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. if we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the pbm company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. in addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pbm companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. if this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. if these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. new partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. for example, following the entry into our strategic relationship with amerisourcebergen providing for, among other things, generic drug purchasing through our global sourcing enterprise, some of our retail pharmacy competitors subsequently established relationships with other pharmaceutical drug wholesalers and others relating to generic drug procurement. changes in the participants in such global sourcing enterprises, whether as a result of mergers, acquisitions - 10 - table of contents or other transactions, can have a similar effect. in addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances. a significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. we have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. there can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources therein. acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in successfully integrating the operations and personnel, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. any failure to select suitable opportunities at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. these transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments also involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to assumed litigation and unknown environmental and other liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. no assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a timely and effective manner, our business operations and growth strategies could be negatively affected. our strategic relationships include outsourcing and similar relationships. we outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. for example, in july 2017 we announced a binding offer from fareva for a 10-year global agreement for the manufacture and supply of own beauty brands and private label products. under the terms of the proposed agreement, fareva will take ownership of bcm, walgreens boots alliance's contract manufacturing business, which operates factories in the united kingdom, france and germany. the proposed agreement, which is subject to certain closing conditions, is expected to be completed by the end of calendar year 2017. we rely on these third parties to meet our quality and performance requirements and to timely perform as expected. we periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. if our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with any transition, we may experience operational difficulties, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. we may not be able to successfully or timely complete the acquisition of certain rite aid assets. risks and uncertainties related to our acquisition of 1,932 stores, three distribution centers and related inventory from rite aid pursuant to the amended and restated asset purchase agreement include, among others, the occurrence of any event, change or other circumstance that could impact our ability to complete the closing conditions set forth in the amended and restated asset purchase agreement, including that litigation may be filed which could prevent or delay completion of the transaction, and that uncertainty regarding the transaction may adversely affect relationships with suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. while we have completed the acquisition of the first few rite aid stores pursuant to the amended and restated asset purchase agreement as of the date of this report, ownership of stores is expected to be transferred in phases, with the - 11 - table of contents goal being to complete the store transfers in spring 2018. completion of the remaining asset acquisition transactions is subject to the satisfaction of the applicable conditions set forth in the amended and restated asset purchase agreement. we will be unable to complete the acquisition of these rite aid assets until each of the conditions to closing is either satisfied or waived. we have incurred and will continue to incur significant costs, expenses and fees for professional services and other transaction costs in connection with the transaction, as well as the diversion of management resources, for which we will receive little or no benefit if the closing of the remaining asset acquisitions do not occur. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of certain rite aid assets pursuant to the amended and restated asset purchase agreement, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we entered into the amended and restated asset purchase agreement to acquire certain rite aid stores and distribution centers with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. the achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether the acquired assets can be integrated into our business in an efficient and effective manner, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. we can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all; the costs or difficulties related to the integration of the acquired assets into our business and operations will not be greater than expected; unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction; litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed; and the transaction will not cause disruption to the parties' business and operations and relationships with employees and suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. if one or more of these risks are realized, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. we could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances, such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues resulting from the transaction. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention, which could adversely impact our agility to respond to market opportunities and our ability to timely identify and implement other strategic actions. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have incurred significant transaction costs related to the transaction and expect to continue to incur significant integration and related costs as we integrate the acquired rite aid assets. these integration and acquisition-related costs, including legal, accounting, financial and tax advisory and other fees and costs, may be higher than expected and some of these costs may be material. our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including: compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, immigration, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; additional u.s. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws; potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; price controls imposed by foreign countries; tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets; potential adverse tax consequences, including tax withholding laws and policies and restrictions on repatriation of funds to the united states; - 12 - table of contents fluctuations in currency exchange rates; impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the united states, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. these factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. we cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition. many of these factors are subject to change based on changes in political, economic and regulatory influences. for example: our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions have substantial operations in the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. on june 23, 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, which proposed exit (and the political, economic and other uncertainties it has raised) has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. negotiations on withdrawal and post-exit arrangements likely will be complex and protracted, and there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. the proposed withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other parties. further, uncertainty around these and related issues could lead to adverse effects on the economy of the united kingdom and the other economies in which we operate. many of the products we sell are manufactured in whole or in part outside of the united states. in some cases, these products are imported by others and sold to us. following the november 2016 election in the united states, the new administration has discussed or sought to implement changes with respect to certain tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. while it is not possible to predict whether or when any such changes will occur or what form they may take, significant changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations between the united states and other countries could result in significant increases in our costs, restrict our access to certain suppliers and adversely impact economic activity. in addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in united states trade policy and regulations. there can be no assurance that any or all of these developments will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our significant operations outside of the united states expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses' functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we present our financial statements in u.s. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-u.s. dollar currencies, primarily the british pound sterling and the euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. - 13 - table of contents we may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us, that could materially and adversely affect us. additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency borrowings to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. the periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and business transformation and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. our board of directors approved the plan to implement the store optimization program described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of this program. our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in the store optimization program and other business optimization initiatives. if we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change and business transformation plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. the loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, a supplier's financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our retail pharmacy usa division. in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between walgreens and amerisourcebergen pursuant to which we source branded and generic pharmaceutical products from amerisourcebergen in the u.s. and an agreement which provides amerisourcebergen the ability to access generics pharmaceutical products through our global sourcing enterprise. in may 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. in addition, in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in amerisourcebergen and gain associated representation on amerisourcebergen's board of directors in certain circumstances. as of the date of this report, amerisourcebergen distributes for our retail pharmacy usa division substantially all branded and generic pharmaceutical products. consequently, our business in the united states may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that amerisourcebergen experiences. for example, if amerisourcebergen's operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the united states and our results of operations. our distribution agreement with amerisourcebergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or amerisourcebergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. if such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any such expiration or termination would be - 14 - table of contents temporary. however, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with amerisourcebergen may not be realized. we entered into the arrangement with amerisourcebergen with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would result in various benefits including, among other things, procurement cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. many of the anticipated synergies and expenses that will be incurred, by their nature, are difficult to estimate accurately at the present time. achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits and synergies, whether unique corporate cultures of separate organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. as of august 31, 2017, we beneficially owned approximately 26% of the outstanding amerisourcebergen common stock and had designated one member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors. in addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework agreement dated as of march 18, 2013 by and among the company, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen (the framework agreement ) to acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 amerisourcebergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. there can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in amerisourcebergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable. if the price of amerisourcebergen common stock subsequently declines substantially, we could experience a loss on or impairment of such investment, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. further, our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with amerisourcebergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration we anticipate resulting from the framework agreement. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. from time to time, we make debt or equity investments in companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. for example, while we have a significant equity investment in amerisourcebergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of amerisourcebergen as of the date of this report, we do not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. although the businesses in which we have made non-controlling investments often have a significant health and daily living or prescription drug component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. from time to time, we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. these conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. external factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, inflation, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely - 15 - table of contents affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending as well as in prescription drug and health services utilization and which could be exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. in addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. all of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. economic conditions in europe and certain emerging market countries, together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments, could adversely affect us. we have significant assets and operations within europe and certain emerging market countries in our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions. an economic slowdown within any such markets could adversely affect our businesses in affected regions by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in recent years, in response to the economic environment, a number of governments, including the government in the united kingdom, have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending for the government-sponsored healthcare systems and constrain overall government expenditures. these measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. countries with existing austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. in addition, governments that have not yet imposed austerity measures may impose them in the future. any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations. the industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. new entrants to the market, existing competitor actions, or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us. the level of competition in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries is high. changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, could materially and adversely impact us. disruptive innovation by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such changes and make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order pharmacies and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. competition may also come from other sources in the future. as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. for example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our pharmaceutical wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms. we also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. for example, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the united states, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs), that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. to better serve this evolving market, on march 31, 2017, we and prime therapeutics llc, a pbm, closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, alliancerx walgreens prime, using an innovative model that seeks to align pharmacy, pbm and health plans to coordinate patient care, improve health outcomes and deliver cost of care opportunities. if this joint venture does not successfully implement its model or is not able to compete effectively in this evolving market, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. - 16 - table of contents our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases, as well as to provide immediate public reactions regarding various facets of our operations. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner that keeps pace with technological developments and dynamic customer expectations, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations. if the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. the success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, engaging customer service and a quality assortment of available merchandise that differentiates us from other retailers, including enhanced health and beauty product offerings. we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. if we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. in addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns and evolving demographic mixes in the markets we serve could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. in addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. we seek to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the expanded offering of no7 and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers and typically provide us with higher gross margins than comparable national brand products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. an increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we may experience a significant disruption in our computer systems. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. in addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and - 17 - table of contents infrastructure, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. while we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and believe we are taking reasonable action to mitigate known risks, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant issues with our existing systems prior to implementation, that our technology initiatives will be successfully deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without significant disruption to our operations. we also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payers and vendors. if we or the businesses we interact with do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, it could damage our reputation and we could suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and regulatory scrutiny. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. in addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses. the regulatory environment surrounding information security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data privacy regulations in the united states and in other countries in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. some foreign data privacy regulations are more stringent than those in the united states and continue to change. for example, in may 2018, the general data protection regulation will supersede current european union data protection legislation, impose more stringent european union data protection requirements, and provide for greater penalties for noncompliance. complying with these and other changing requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs and require us to change our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially adversely affect our business operations and operating results. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. if we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to additional litigation and regulatory risks. our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies such as apple pay , and we may offer new payment options over time. acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. these requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over - 18 - table of contents time and raise our operating costs. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. if these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. the payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. in addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare and medicaid funding in the united states and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. in the united states, the results of the november 2016 elections have generated uncertainty with respect to, and could result in, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our businesses and the health care and retail industries. there have been multiple attempts to repeal, amend or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the aca, which was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. even if the aca remains in effect, significant provisions of aca have not yet been finalized (e.g., nondiscrimination in health programs and activities and the excise tax on high-cost employer-sponsored health coverage) and it is uncertain whether or in what form these provisions will be finalized. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to repeal, amend or otherwise invalidate these laws and adopt new healthcare legislation will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments under the aca or otherwise could adversely impact the number of americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. we cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. a significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. we operate in complex, highly regulated environments in the united states and in the other countries in which we operate and could be adversely affected by changes to existing legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country and state registration and regulation of pharmacies and drug discount card programs; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including hipaa; the aca or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and drug enforcement administration ( dea ), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell as well as our loyalty and drug discount card programs; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the - 19 - table of contents corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the profession of pharmacy. for example, in the united states the dea, fda and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters as well as employee benefit, competition and antitrust matters. in addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party's intellectual property rights. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states and the national health service in the united kingdom; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues. we could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective or expired products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labelling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. through our pharmacies and specialist packaging sites, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we provide. errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals, including related counseling, and in the provision of other healthcare services could lead to serious injury or death. product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims and judgments. we also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. we could suffer significant reputational damage and financial liability if we, or any affiliated entities, experience any of the foregoing health and safety issues or incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. as of august 31, 2017, we had approximately $13 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term borrowings. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions; making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and - 20 - table of contents exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. we may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. if we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. we also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. in addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. if we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. this could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. we could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. the major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. we benefit from investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. however, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. incurrence of additional debt by us could adversely affect our credit ratings. we depend on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to our business and perform under our agreements with them. defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect us. any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. in addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. the termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. if we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. if we are unable to maintain our existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as a holding company, walgreens boots alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. walgreens boots alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. as a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including walgreens and alliance boots, to meet its obligations. additionally, walgreens boots alliance's subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to walgreens boots alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of walgreens boots alliance common stock. credit facilities and other debt obligations of walgreens boots alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of walgreens boots alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. payments to walgreens boots alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. - 21 - table of contents our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges; the relative magnitude of our lifo provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; seasonality; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (december, january and february) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. we purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. this could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. we could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, equity method investments, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, pension and postretirement benefits, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. for example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the company's reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, including investments held by our equity method investees, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit. factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested or the investments held by those companies include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries in which they operate in. new accounting guidance also may require systems and other changes that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. for example, in february 2016, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) 2016-02, leases (topic 842), which supersedes topic 840, leases. this asu, which is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2018 (fiscal 2020), seeks to increase the transparency and comparability of organizations by recognizing operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. see, new accounting pronouncements, within note 2, summary of major accounting policies to the consolidated financial statements. implementing this asu, as well as other new accounting guidance may require us to make significant upgrades to and investments in our lease administration systems and other accounting systems, and could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. - 22 - table of contents as of august 31, 2017, we had $25.8 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets. we evaluate this goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. as part of this impairment analysis, we determine fair value for each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. definite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. we operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. we are involved in litigation, arbitration and other legal proceedings and subject to investigations, inspections, audits, inquiries and similar actions by governmental authorities arising in the course of our businesses, including those contained in note 11, commitments and contingencies to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. legal proceedings, in general, and securities and class action litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. in addition, under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of false claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. from time to time, we are also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. we cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. as a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. the outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources. we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control, anti-money laundering and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. in addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the united states federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. as the - 23 - table of contents tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. any changes in corporate income tax laws or any implementation of tax laws relating to corporate tax reform, could significantly impact our overall tax liability. from time to time, legislative and regulatory initiatives are proposed that could adversely affect our tax positions, effective tax rate, tax payments or financial condition. in addition, tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations and any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any change in enacted tax laws, rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations, any adverse outcome in connection with tax audits in any jurisdiction or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments and results of operations. our insurance strategies may expose us to unexpected costs. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers' liability; and employee healthcare benefits. provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. substantial, unanticipated losses or liabilities, including those due to natural disasters or otherwise, as well as changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. we operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the united kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. the valuation of the pension plan's assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. this valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of august 31, 2017, affiliates of stefano pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer (the sp investors ), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 14% of our outstanding common stock. the sp investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the company's stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). the sp investors' significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. the influence of the sp investors could result in the company taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. shares issued to former alliance boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots are eligible for future sale. the shares issued to the sp investors and certain other former alliance boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots generally may now be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the company shareholders agreement ) with certain of the sp investors. in addition, the company shareholders agreement also contains registration rights that would obligate us, in certain instances, to file future registration statements under the securities act covering resales of shares issued to former alliance boots stockholders or to permit a piggyback on a future registration statement. a sale, or the perception that a sale may occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with. - 24 - table of contents conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could arise between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which our directors or officers are involved. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the company and other parties to the company shareholders agreement, including the sp investors. mr. pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, indirectly controls alliance sant participations s.a. ( asp ), a privately-held company which is a party to the company shareholders agreement, and he and his partner ornella barra, our co-chief operating officer, serve as directors of asp. similar issues could arise in connection with other transactions in the future. while our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties' conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our board or impede a takeover. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. these provisions include the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by the board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. we are also subject to the provisions of section 203 of the dgcl, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. under the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the board (currently stefano pessina) for so long as the sp investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). while these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. see also the risk factor captioned certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval above. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition to the other risk factors identified in this item 1a, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; issuances or sales of our common stock, including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the sp investors; and various other market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors or speculation, whether or not correct, involving or affecting us or our industries, vendors, customers, strategic partners or competitors. - 25 - table of contents there are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results. many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales or sales margins could be negatively affected. our operating costs may be subject to increases outside the control of our businesses, whether due to inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise. our success depends on our ability to attract, engage and retain store, professional and management personnel, including in executive and other key strategic positions, and the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flow. natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can interrupt or otherwise adversely impact our operations or damage our facilities or those of our strategic partners, vendors and customers and have an adverse impact on consumer confidence levels and spending on our products and services. if we or our affiliates were to incur significant liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. if negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damage our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of our vendors or strategic allies, our businesses may suffer. qualitative and quantitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk we are exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing debt issuances. primary exposures include libor and commercial paper rates. from time to time, we use interest rate derivative contracts including interest rate caps, interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge our exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of our financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt. generally under these swaps, we agree with a - 55 - table of contents counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. information regarding our transactions are set forth in note 9, financial instruments to our consolidated financial statements. these financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. on august 31, 2017 , we had no material long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. the amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts. foreign currency exchange rate risk we are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the british pound sterling and euro, and certain other foreign currencies, including the mexican peso, swiss franc and romanian leu which may affect our net investment in foreign subsidiaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. we are also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the u.s. dollar. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows of certain entities denominated in foreign currencies. these transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. in addition, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions). as circumstances warrant, we also use basis swaps as hedging instruments to hedge portions of our net investments in foreign operations. the foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. a 1% increase or decrease in exchange rates would increase or decrease our pre-tax income by approximately $8 million due to changes in the value of foreign currency derivative instruments. excluded from the computation were anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables, and net investments in foreign subsidiaries, which the abovementioned instruments are intended to partially hedge. equity price risk changes in amerisourcebergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in amerisourcebergen described in note 5, equity method investments to our consolidated financial statements. see -- amerisourcebergen corporation relationship above. - 56 - table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. - 8 - table of contents reductions in third-party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third-party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. the continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pbm companies, governmental agencies, and other third-party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. in the united states, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in january and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. in addition, in an environment where some pbm clients utilize narrow or restricted pharmacy provider networks, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. changes in political, economic and regulatory influences also may significantly affect healthcare financing and prescription drug reimbursement practices. in the united states, for example, there have been multiple attempts through executive action, legislative action and legal challenges to modify or repeal the aca, along with additional initiatives focused on increasing transparency and reducing costs in the u.s. healthcare system. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify or repeal these laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a modification or repeal and any subsequent legislation would have on our business and reimbursement levels. there have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce medicare part d and medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. in the event that a third-party payer's budgetary or financial condition deteriorates, they may not be able to pay timely, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in many countries where we have operations, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuous and reductions in third-party reimbursement levels could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, many payers in the united states are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates. it is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. in addition, many state medicaid fee-for-service programs have established pharmacy network payments on the basis of actual acquisition cost, which could have an impact on reimbursement practices in other commercial and governmental arrangements. future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third-party payers, could adversely affect us. a shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans, products, and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. our retail pharmacy usa division seeks to grow prescription volume while operating in a marketplace with continuous reimbursement pressure. a shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. for example, our retail pharmacy usa division has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in recent years, and specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the united states and a correspondingly larger proportion of our revenues. our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions, and specialty pharmacy sales are generally also lower margin. our retail pharmacy usa division also has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards medicare part d prescriptions in recent years, and that trend may continue. preferred medicare part d networks have increased in number in recent years; however, we do not participate in all such networks. we have accepted lower reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with medicare part d plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. we also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third-party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in the pharmacy provider networks they offer. if we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, or if the degree or terms of our participation in such preferred networks declines from current levels in future years, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed by a limited number of pharmacy benefit management companies. - 9 - table of contents we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by a limited number of pbm companies. pbm companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. contracts with certain pbm companies that we have historically done substantial business with are due for renewal in fiscal 2020. there can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular pbm company's pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period or on terms reasonably acceptable to us. if our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large pbm companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. if we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the pbm company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. in addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. we could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs. the profitability of our pharmacy businesses depends upon the utilization of prescription drugs. utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name drugs. inflation in the price of drugs also can adversely affect utilization, particularly given the increased prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. new brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, delays in their introduction, or a decrease in the utilization of previously introduced prescription drugs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our expectations. consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pbm companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. if this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. if these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. new and proposed acquisitions, partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. for example, in november 2018, cvs health corporation, an integrated pharmacy health care company that operates one of the largest retail drugstore chains and pbm companies in the united states, acquired aetna, inc., one of the largest diversified health care benefits companies. changes in the participants in global sourcing enterprises relating to drug procurement, whether as a result of mergers, acquisitions or other transactions, can also have a similar effect on market dynamics and our business. in addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances. - 10 - table of contents a significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. we have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. there can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources. acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in successfully integrating the operations and personnel, navigating the necessary regulatory approval requirements, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. any failure to select suitable opportunities at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. these transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments also involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to assumed litigation and unknown environmental and other liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. no assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a timely and effective manner, our business operations and growth strategies could be negatively affected. our strategic relationships include outsourcing and similar relationships. we outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. we rely on these third parties to meet our quality and performance requirements and to timely perform as expected. we periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. if our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with any transition, we may experience operational difficulties, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. we operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. we are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax and other governmental authorities, including those contained in note 10, commitments and contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. for example, in january 2019, walgreen co., on behalf of itself, its subsidiaries and certain identified affiliates, resolved matters regarding certain dispensing practices by entering into, among other things, a corporate integrity agreement with the office of inspector general of the united states department of health and human services. the corporate integrity agreement has a five-year term and provides that walgreen co. shall, among other things, continue the compliance program it created to address compliance with federal health care program requirements, provide annual certifications of compliance and provide training and education for certain covered employees. failure to meet the corporate integrity agreement obligations could have material adverse consequences for us, including reputational harm and monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. in addition, in the event of a breach or deliberate violation of the corporate integrity agreement, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs, or subjected to other significant penalties, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results. legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. for example, we are a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings relating to opioids. from time to time, the company is also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. see note 10, commitments and contingencies, for more information. - 11 - table of contents the company's financial results may also be adversely affected by the litigation and other legal proceedings of companies in which it has an equity method investment. any unfavorable outcome or settlement related to these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. like other companies in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries, the company is subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the united states and other countries in which it operates. there continues to be a heightened level of review and/or audit by regulatory authorities of, and increased litigation regarding, the company's and the rest of the health care and related industry's business, compliance and reporting practices. as a result, the company regularly is the subject of government actions of the types described above. in addition, under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of false claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. after a private party has filed a qui tam action, the government must investigate the private party's claim and determine whether to intervene in and take control over the litigation. these actions may remain under seal while the government makes this determination. we cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. as a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. in addition, as a result of governmental investigations or proceedings, the company may be subject to damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including the possible suspension or loss of licensure and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in government programs. the outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources. our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and business transformation and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. our board of directors approved the plans to implement the transformational cost management program and the store optimization program each as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of these programs. our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in the transformational cost management program, the store optimization program and other business optimization initiatives. if we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change and business transformation plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. the industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. new entrants to the market, existing competitor actions or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us. the level of competition in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries is high. changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, could materially and adversely impact us. disruptive innovation, or the perception of potentially disruptive innovation, by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such changes and if required make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. for example, in september 2018, online retailer amazon.com, inc. acquired pillpack, an online pharmacy with licenses throughout the united states. some industry analysts have speculated that the pillpack acquisition could provide a platform for amazon to significantly expand into the market for prescription drugs. our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order pharmacies and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and - 12 - table of contents alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. competition may also come from other sources in the future. as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, including pressure on the convenience premium of our retail pricing model, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. for example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our pharmaceutical wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms. we also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. as technology, consumer behavior, omni-channel and differential retail models, and market conditions continue to evolve in the united states, it is important that we maintain the relevance of our brand and product and service offerings to customers and patients. in recent years, we announced that we are testing a number of concepts and initiatives designed to position our stores in the united states as convenient neighborhood health destinations for healthcare and retail products and services. the concepts being tested include new approaches to pricing and promotions, product selection, in-store and digital experience, and strategic partnerships that bring new products and services to our customers. we plan to use these pilots to listen to customers, learn and adjust based on feedback, with decisions on the nature and extent of further roll-outs made over time as we gain experience. if our customers are not receptive to these changes, if we are unable to expand successful programs in a timely manner, or we otherwise do not effectively respond to changes in market dynamics, our businesses and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. additionally, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the united states, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs), that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. accordingly, it is important that we and our affiliates compete effectively in this evolving market, or our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. to better serve this evolving market, in march 2017, we and prime therapeutics llc, a pbm, closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, alliancerx walgreens prime, using an innovative model that seeks to align pharmacy, pbm and health plans to coordinate patient care, improve health outcomes and deliver cost of care opportunities. if this joint venture is not able to compete effectively in this evolving market and successfully adapt to changing market conditions, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including: compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, immigration, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; additional u.s. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and other anti-corruption laws; potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; price controls imposed by foreign countries, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets, or fluctuations in currency rates; impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the united states, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; - 13 - table of contents the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. these factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. we cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition. many of these factors are subject to change based on changes in political, economic and regulatory influences. for example: our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions have substantial operations in the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, which proposed exit (and the political, economic and other uncertainties it has raised), commonly referred to as brexit, has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. an original exit date was set for march 29, 2019, but following the uk parliament's rejection of a negotiated outcome, the leaders of the member countries of the european union have agreed to multiple extensions of the deadline for brexit. given the complexity and uncertainty surrounding the potential withdrawal and negotiations, including with respect to terms of trade and customs, there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements, and whether there will be an orderly withdrawal from the european union or a so-called hard brexit with no continuing uk participation in the eu's single market or the eu customs union. the proposed withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other parties. further, uncertainty around and developments regarding these and related issues has contributed to deteriorating market conditions and could further adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the economy of the united kingdom and the economies of other countries in which we operate and cause significant volatility in currency exchange rates. in the event of a hard brexit, the related risks and uncertainties could be further exacerbated; and many of the products we sell are manufactured in whole or in part outside of the united states. in some cases, these products are imported by others and sold to us. in the united states, the presidential administration has discussed, and in some cases implemented, changes with respect to certain tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. for example, concerns regarding trade relations between the united states and china have escalated during fiscal 2019 and discussions have continued through the date of this report, as both countries imposed significant tariffs on the importation of certain product categories. as a significant portion of our retail products are sourced from china, the imposition on the united states of these and any additional new tariffs on certain goods imported from china have adversely affected costs and could impact the profitability of retail product sales in our retail pharmacy usa division. while it is not possible to predict whether or when any additional changes will occur or what form they may take, significant changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations between the united states and other countries could result in significant increases in our costs, restrict our access to certain suppliers and adversely impact economic activity. in addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in united states' trade policy and regulations. there can be no assurance that any or all of these developments will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we operate in 25 countries across the globe, and our significant operations outside of the united states expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses' functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we present our financial statements in u.s. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-u.s. dollar currencies, primarily the british pound sterling and the euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the - 14 - table of contents volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. we may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us, that could materially and adversely affect us. additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency debt to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. the periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. we may experience a significant disruption in our information technology and computer systems. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. in addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and infrastructure, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, outsourcing critical information technology to third parties, making changes to existing systems, including the migration of applications to the cloud, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, changes in security processes, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. we rely on strategic partners and other service providers to help us with certain significant information technology projects and services. information technology projects or services frequently are long-term in nature and may take longer to complete and cost more than we expect and may not deliver the benefits we project once they are complete. there can be no assurance that we and our strategic partners and service providers will be able to deliver the required functionality of our information technology projects or services within the required timeframe and budget. furthermore, pursuing multiple initiatives simultaneously could make implementation significantly more challenging. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and outsourcing critical information technology functions and there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant issues with our existing systems prior to implementation, that our technology initiatives will be successfully deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without significant disruption to our operations. we also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payers and vendors. any system implementation and transition difficulty may result in operational challenges, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. if we or the businesses we interact with do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, it could damage our reputation and we could suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and regulatory scrutiny. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could create significant workflow disruption, attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships, reputation and brand, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. in addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. like other global companies, we and businesses we interact with have experienced threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other - 15 - table of contents destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information, and cause system failures and disruptions. any compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses. we depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including payers, strategic partners and cloud service providers. these third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. like us, these third-parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and cyber-attacks and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. any expansion of information technology outsourcing, including through arrangements with our strategic partners, may increase vulnerabilities and weaknesses relating to cybersecurity and data management. security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events, which could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, or misuse of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. the regulatory environment surrounding data security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses and geographic areas. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data security and privacy regulations in the united states and in other jurisdictions in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. in the united states, for example, hipaa imposes extensive privacy and security requirements governing the transmission, use and disclosure of health information by covered entities in the health care industry, including health care providers such as pharmacies. in addition, the california consumer privacy act, which goes into effect on january 1, 2020, imposes stringent requirements on the use and treatment of personal information of california residents, which term is broadly defined to include, among other things, information that identifies, relates to, describes, is capable of being associated with, or could reasonably be linked to a consumer or household. other u.s. states have enacted, or are proposing similar laws related to the protection of personal data. in addition, the u.s. federal government is considering federal privacy legislation. outside the united states, many of our business units operate in countries with stringent data protection regulations, and these laws continue to change. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation, which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union data protection laws and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance. other countries have enacted or are considering enacting data localization laws that require certain data to stay within their borders. complying with changing regulatory requirements requires us to incur substantial costs and may require changes to our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and operating results. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. if we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to additional litigation and regulatory risks, particularly to the extent the breach relates to sensitive data. our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and credibility, and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. a significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. we operate in complex, highly regulated environments around the world and could be materially and adversely affected by changes to applicable legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division - 16 - table of contents are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing, billing practices, utilization and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country and state registration and regulation of pharmacies and drug discount card programs; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including hipaa; the aca or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, each of which continues to evolve, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and drug enforcement administration ( dea ), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell as well as our loyalty and drug discount card programs; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the profession of pharmacy. for example, in the united states, the dea, fda and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters as well as employee benefit, competition and antitrust matters. in addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party's intellectual property rights. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states and the national health service in the united kingdom; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and brand, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control, anti-money laundering and economic and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the uk bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, u.s. export control, economic and trade sanctions, or anti-money laundering laws or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws or to have otherwise conducted business activities inappropriately or unethically, including through acts of bribery, corruption, conflicts of interest, fraud, manipulation of records or dealings with inappropriate business counterparties or partners, we may face penalties, sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. in addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our - 17 - table of contents business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. the loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, a supplier's financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our retail pharmacy usa division. in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between walgreens and amerisourcebergen pursuant to which we source branded and generic pharmaceutical products from amerisourcebergen in the united states and an agreement which provides amerisourcebergen the ability to access generic pharmaceutical products through our global sourcing enterprise. in may 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. in addition, in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in amerisourcebergen and gain associated representation on amerisourcebergen's board of directors in certain circumstances. as of the date of this report, amerisourcebergen distributes for our retail pharmacy usa division substantially all branded and generic pharmaceutical products. consequently, our business in the united states may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that amerisourcebergen experiences. for example, if amerisourcebergen's operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the united states and our results of operations. our distribution agreement with amerisourcebergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or amerisourcebergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. if such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any such expiration or termination would be temporary. however, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with amerisourcebergen may not be realized. as of august 31, 2019 , we beneficially owned approximately 27% of the outstanding amerisourcebergen common stock and had designated one member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors. in addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework agreement dated as of march 18, 2013 by and among the company, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen (the framework agreement ) to acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 amerisourcebergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. there can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in amerisourcebergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable. the company accounts for its investment in amerisourcebergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to the investment classified within the operating income of the company's pharmaceutical wholesale segment. the financial performance of amerisourcebergen, including any charges which may arise relating to its ongoing opioid litigation, will impact the company's results of operations. additionally, a substantial and sustained decline in the price of amerisourcebergen's common stock could trigger an impairment evaluation of - 18 - table of contents our investment. these considerations may materially and adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. further, our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with amerisourcebergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration resulting from these agreements. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of assets from rite aid, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we entered into an agreement to acquire certain rite aid stores and distribution centers with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. the achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including completion of the pending acquisition of distribution centers and related inventory expected to be completed during fiscal 2020, whether the acquired assets can be integrated into our business in an efficient and effective manner, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. we can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all; the costs or difficulties related to the integration of the acquired assets into our business and operations will not be greater than expected; unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction; litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed; and the transaction will not cause disruption to the parties' business and operations and relationships with employees and suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. if one or more of these risks are realized, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. from time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. from time to time, we make debt or equity investments in companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. for example, while we have a significant equity investment in amerisourcebergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of amerisourcebergen as of the date of this report, we do not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. some of the businesses in which we have made noncontrolling investments operate in markets or industries that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. for example we have an equity investment in sinopharm holding guoda drugstores co., ltd., a leading retail pharmacy chain in china. investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic partnerships and alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. these conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. external factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, inflation, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending as well as in prescription drug and health services utilization and which could be exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. our business operations have been adversely affected by challenging market conditions in our retail pharmacy international division, particularly our boots business in the united kingdom, on account of the economic environment, including the uncertainty associated with brexit. - 19 - table of contents in addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. all of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. economic conditions in europe and certain emerging market countries, together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments, could adversely affect us. we have significant assets and operations within europe and certain emerging market countries in our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions. an economic slowdown within any such markets could adversely affect our businesses in affected regions by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in recent years, in response to the economic environment, a number of governments, including the government in the united kingdom, have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending for the government-sponsored healthcare systems and constrain overall government expenditures. these measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers occurring online and through mobile applications has continued to increase and the pace of this increase could accelerate in the future. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. omni-channel and differentiated retail models are rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases, as well as to provide immediate public reactions regarding various facets of our operations. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner that keeps pace with technological developments and dynamic customer expectations, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations. if the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. the success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, engaging customer service and a quality assortment of available merchandise that differentiates us from other retailers, including enhanced health and beauty product offerings. we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. for example, our proof of concept initiatives that seek to position our stores in the united states as convenient neighborhood health destinations for healthcare and retail products and services reflect the perceived desires and needs of our target market. however, it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. if we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. in addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns and evolving demographic mixes in the markets we serve could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. in addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that in many instances, are not available from other retailers. we seek to continue to grow our private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through - 20 - table of contents the offering of no7, the introduction of complete home and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. an increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. further, managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success, and failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance. our ability to attract, engage and retain qualified and experienced employees, including in executive and other key strategic positions, is essential to meet current and future goals and objectives and there is no guarantee we will be able to attract and retain such employees by offering market competitive compensation, opportunities, empowerment and resources. there can be no assurance that competition among potential employers will not result in increased salaries or other benefits. an inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees, or an unexpected loss of leadership or loss of key personnel, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, failure to adequately plan for succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. while we have succession plans in place and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us. we are subject to payment-related and other financial services risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies such as apple pay , and we may offer new payment options over time. acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. these requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over time and raise our operating costs. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. if these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. the payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. in addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, we offer money (wire) transfer services and sell prepaid debit, credit and gift cards at certain business units. these products and services require us to comply with global anti-money laundering laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and damage to our reputation. changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare and medicaid funding in the united states and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in - 21 - table of contents governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. in the united states, electoral results and changes in political leadership have generated uncertainty with respect to, and could result in, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our businesses and the health care and retail industries. there have been multiple attempts to repeal, modify or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the aca, which was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify these laws and/or adopt new healthcare legislation will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments under the aca or otherwise could adversely impact the number of americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. we cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. we could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues. we could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective or expired products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labeling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. through our pharmacies and specialist packaging sites, including through services provided by third-party health care providers, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we offer. errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals, including related counseling, and in the provision of other healthcare services could lead to serious injury or death. product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. for example, from time to time, the fda issues statements alerting patients that products in our supply chain may contain impurities or harmful substances, and claims relating to the sale or distribution of such products may be asserted against us or arise from these statements. our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims and judgments. we also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. we could suffer significant reputational damage and financial liability if we, or any affiliated entities or third-party healthcare providers that we do business with, experience any of the foregoing health and safety issues or incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. as of august 31, 2019 , we had approximately $17 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term debt. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions and making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. we may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. if we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. - 22 - table of contents we also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. additionally, a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, some of which is tied to the london interbank offered rate for deposits of u.s. dollars ( libor ). libor tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the federal reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market and general economic conditions. in july 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. the expected phase out of libor could cause market volatility or disruption and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets and cost of funding. our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. in addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. if we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. this could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. we could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. the major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. we benefit from investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. however, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. for more information on our ratings, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources - credit ratings. incurrence of additional debt by us and our operating performance could adversely affect our credit ratings. we depend on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to our business and perform under our agreements with them. defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect us. any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. in addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. the termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. for example, in fiscal 2019, we announced the closure of approximately 200 locations in the united states and approximately 200 stores in the united kingdom, respectively, under our transformational cost management program. if we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. if we are unable to maintain our existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as a holding company, walgreens boots alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. - 23 - table of contents walgreens boots alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. as a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including walgreens and alliance boots, to meet its obligations. additionally, walgreens boots alliance's subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to walgreens boots alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of walgreens boots alliance common stock. credit facilities and other debt obligations of walgreens boots alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of walgreens boots alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. payments to walgreens boots alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. future walgreens boots alliance dividends will be determined based on earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by its board of directors. our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis, including increased variability in the second quarter of fiscal 2019, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; seasonality, including the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes or rates of change in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges, including the performance of and impairment charges related to our equity method investments; the relative magnitude of our lifo provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; market conditions, including any impact relating to brexit; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not place undue reliance on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (december, january and february) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. we purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. this could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. we could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, equity method investments, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, pension and postretirement benefits, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. for example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the company's reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit. factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries in which they operate. - 24 - table of contents new accounting guidance also may require changes to our processes, accounting systems and internal controls that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. for example, in february 2016, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) 2016-02, leases (topic 842), which supersedes topic 840, leases. this asu, which became effective for us beginning on september 1, 2019 (fiscal 2020), seeks to increase the transparency and comparability of organizations by recognizing operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. the adoption approach for these accounting standards affect the comparability of our consolidated financial statements. implementing new accounting guidance may require us to make significant changes to and investments in our accounting systems and processes, which could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. see, new accounting pronouncements, within note 1 , summary of major accounting policies , to the consolidated financial statements. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. as of august 31, 2019 , we had $27.4 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we evaluate this goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that could more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. as part of this impairment analysis, we determine fair value for each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. we determine fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets using the relief from royalty method and excess earnings method of the income approach. definite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt and equity, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. for example, during the three months ended august 31, 2019, we completed quantitative impairment analysis for goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets as of a june 1, 2019 valuation date. based on this analysis, the fair value of the boots reporting unit, within the retail pharmacy international segment, is in excess of its carrying value by approximately 9% . as at august 31, 2019 , the carrying value of the goodwill of the boots reporting unit is $2.6 billion . the fair values of certain indefinite-lived intangibles within the boots reporting unit exceeded their carrying amounts ranging from approximately 3% to approximately 29% , except for the pharmacy licenses. as at august 31, 2019 , the carrying value of these indefinite-lived intangibles within boots reporting unit is $6.9 billion . as a result of an annual evaluation, during the three months ended august 31, 2019 , the company recorded an impairment of $73 million on its pharmacy licenses in the boots reporting unit. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. as the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. from time to time, changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. for example, the u.s. tax legislation enacted on december 22, 2017 represented a significant overhaul of the u.s. federal tax code that impacted our u.s. federal income tax position. there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the united states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the determination of our income tax provision and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the ultimate tax determination may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our results of operations in the period or periods for which such determination is made. any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any changes in enacted tax laws (such as the recent u.s. tax legislation), rules or regulatory - 25 - table of contents or judicial interpretations; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance strategies may expose us to unexpected costs. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers' liability; and employee healthcare benefits. provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. substantial, unanticipated losses or liabilities, including those due to natural disasters or otherwise, as well as changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. we operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the united kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. the valuation of the pension plans' assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. this valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of september 30, 2019, affiliates of stefano pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer (the sp investors ), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 16.2% of our outstanding common stock. the sp investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the company's stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). the sp investors' significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. the influence of the sp investors could result in the company taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could arise between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which our directors or officers are involved. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the company and other parties to the company shareholders agreement (as defined herein), including the sp investors. mr. pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, indirectly controls alliance sant participations s.a. ( asp ), a privately-held company which is a party to the company shareholders agreement, and he and his partner ornella barra, our co-chief operating officer, serve as directors of asp. there are other arrangements between affiliates of mr. pessina and the company, with required disclosures included in the company's annual proxy statement, including with respect to alliance healthcare italia spa, which is an entity indirectly owned and controlled by mr. pessina and in which the company has an indirect 9% interest, which operates boots branded stores in italy. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, or similar issues could arise in connection with these or other transactions in the future. while our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties' conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our board or impede a takeover. - 26 - table of contents certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. these provisions include the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by the board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. we are also subject to the provisions of section 203 of the dgcl, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. under the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the board (currently stefano pessina) for so long as the sp investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). while these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. in june 2018, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $10 billion of our common stock. the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares, on any particular timetable or at all. there can be no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices. the repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition to the other risk factors identified in this item 1a, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; issuances or sales of our common stock (or the exercise of related registration rights), including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the sp investors and certain other former alliance boots stockholders, subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the company shareholders agreement ) with certain of the sp investors; and various other market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors or speculation, whether or not correct, involving or affecting us or our industries, vendors, customers, strategic partners or competitors. there are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results. - 27 - table of contents many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs; inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise; natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events; liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular, along with changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery; adverse publicity and potential losses, liabilities and reputational harm stemming from any public incident (whether occurring online, in social media, in our stores or other company facilities, or elsewhere) involving our company, our personnel or our brands, including any such public incident involving our customers, products, services, stores or other property, or those of any of our vendors or other parties with which we do business; and negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damaging our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of any of our vendors or strategic allies. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk the company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing variable-rate debt instruments and future incurrences of fixed or variable-rate debt, which exposure primarily relates to movements in various interest rates, such as u.s treasury rates and commercial paper rates. from time to time, the company uses interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed-rate versus floating-rate debt. generally under these swaps, the company agrees with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. information regarding the company's transactions are set forth in note 8 , financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements. these financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. on august 31, 2019 , the company had no material long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. the amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the british pound sterling and euro, and certain other foreign currencies, which may affect its net investment in foreign subsidiaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. the company is also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the u.s. dollar. the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows. these transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. in addition, the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions). under certain market conditions, the company may seek to protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our foreign subsidiaries by using foreign currency cross-currency swaps, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts or foreign currency debt. the company's foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. a hypothetical 1% change in foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives held as of august 31, 2019 , by approximately $22 million. the foreign currency derivatives are intended to partially hedge anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. equity price risk changes in amerisourcebergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in amerisourcebergen described in note 5 , equity method investments , to the consolidated financial statements. see --investment in amerisourcebergen above. - 57 - table of contentsrisk factors 9 risk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. covid-19 amplifies and exacerbates many of the risks we face in our business operations, including those discussed below. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. our business operations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position have been and will in the future be adversely impacted by covid-19, and the duration and extent to which it will impact our business operations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position remains uncertain. in december 2019, a novel strain of coronavirus, which causes the infectious disease known as covid-19, was reported. the world health organization declared covid-19 a "public health emergency of international concern" on january 30, 2020 and a global pandemic on march 11, 2020. covid-19 has severely impacted, and is expected to continue to severely impact, the economies of the u.s., the uk and other countries around the world. covid-19 has created significant public health concerns as well as significant volatility, uncertainty and economic disruption in every region in which we operate, all of which have adversely affected and may continue to adversely affect our industries and our business operations. while we have taken numerous steps intended to mitigate the impact of the pandemic on us, there can be no assurance that such steps will be successful or that our business operations, results of operations, cash flows and financial position will not be materially and adversely affected by the consequences of the pandemic. the extent to which covid-19 impacts us will depend on numerous evolving factors and future developments that we are not able to predict or control, including but not limited to: the severity and duration of the pandemic, including whether there are additional "waves or other additional periods of increases or spikes in the number of covid-19 cases in areas in which we operate; the duration, degree and effectiveness of governmental, business or other actions in response to the pandemic, including but not limited to quarantine, shelter-in-place, social distancing and facemask measures; restrictions on or changes to our operations up to and including complete or partial closure of our stores, facilities and distribution centers; economic measures; access to unemployment compensation; stimulus payments and other fiscal policy changes; or additional measures that may not yet be effected; the timing and availability of, and prevalence of access to and utilization of, effective medical treatments and vaccines for covid-19; changes in the timing and extent of restrictions impacting our businesses and our customers as a result of covid-19, which may vary materially over time and among the different regions and markets we serve; evolving macroeconomic factors, including general economic uncertainty, unemployment rates, and recessionary pressures; the impact of the pandemic on economic activity and the pace and extent of recovery when the pandemic subsides, which may vary materially over time and among the different regions and markets we serve; the extent and duration of the effect on consumer confidence, economic well-being, spending, customer demand, buying patterns and shopping behaviors, including spend on discretionary categories, which often include higher margin products, and increased utilization of online sales channels, both during and after the pandemic; the health of and the effect on our team members and our ability to meet staffing needs in our stores, distribution facilities, wholesale operations, corporate offices and other critical functions, including if team members are quarantined as a result of exposure; the impacts - financial, operational and otherwise - on our distribution channels and supply chain, including manufacturers and suppliers of products we sell and logistics and transportation providers, and on our other strategic - 9 - table of contents partners and service providers, including the ability of these third parties to pay amounts owed to us timely or in full or to remain in business; consequences on our business performance and strategic initiatives stemming from the substantial investment of time and other resources to the pandemic response; the incremental costs of doing business during and/or after the pandemic; volatility or disruptions in the credit and financial markets during and/or after the pandemic; any impairment in value of our tangible or intangible assets which could be recorded as a result of a weaker economic conditions; the potential effects on our internal controls including those over financial reporting as a result of changes in working environments such as shelter-in-place and similar orders that are applicable to our team members and business partners, among others; changes to, and modifications of, business practices and internal policies and procedures, including in response to regulatory changes as a result of covid-19; increased cyber security risks, including as a result of our team members, and employees of our business partners, vendors, suppliers and other third parties with which we do business, working remotely; the impact of regulatory and judicial changes in liability for workers compensation and potential increases in insurance costs, medical claims costs and workers' compensation claim costs ; the impact of litigation or claims from customers, employees, suppliers, regulators or other third parties relating to covid-19 or our actions in response thereto; the potential reputational harm to our brands if we fail to appropriately respond, or are perceived to have inadequately responded, to risks relating to covid-19; the rapidly changing and fluid circumstances caused by the pandemic and our ability to respond quickly or appropriately to those circumstances; and the long-term impacts of the pandemic on the global economy, trade relations, consumer behavior, our industry and our business operations. the above factors and uncertainties, or others of which we are not currently aware, may result in material adverse impacts to our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. in addition, we cannot predict with certainty the impact that covid-19 will have on our customers, suppliers, vendors, and other business partners, and each of their financial conditions; however, any material adverse effect on these parties could materially and adversely impact us. we have incurred and continue to incur additional costs related to efforts to protect the health and well-being and meet the needs of our customers and team members, including expanding the use of drive-thru locations in the united states, providing additional cleaning materials for our stores and other facilities, and focusing on home delivery and digital services to connect with our customers. in addition, we have enhanced certain employee benefits. we expect to continue to incur additional costs, which may be significant, as we continue to respond to this pandemic. covid-19 has also caused supply chain disruption which has resulted and may continue to result in higher supply chain costs to replenish inventory in our stores and distribution centers. furthermore, while we have significantly increased our purchases across many key categories, we may face delays or difficulty sourcing certain products which could negatively impact us. further, our management remains focused on mitigating covid-19, which has required, and will continue to require, a substantial investment of time and resources across our enterprise and could delay other value added services. for example, during the second half of fiscal 2020, we temporarily refocused certain resources from our transformational cost management program to work on covid-19 impacts, delayed the roll out of certain growth initiatives and selectively delayed investments in certain planned initiatives. additionally, many of our employees transitioned to remote working arrangements as a result of the pandemic, which amplified our already extensive reliance on computer systems and our continued need for unimpeded access to the internet to use those systems. the increase in remote work arrangements has increased certain operational risks, including but not limited to cybersecurity risks, and could adversely affect our ability to manage our business. we have also modified other parts of our operations during the pandemic, including changes in the manner in which team members interact with customers and each other, adjusting our in-store returns process, establishing protocols for customer traffic, reducing store hours, and, in some locations, other restrictions or modifications on our operations due to emergency state or local restrictions or their effects. there can be no assurance that such measures will be sufficient to mitigate the risks posed by the pandemic, and implementation of such measures have adversely affected, and may continue to negatively affect, the customer experience, sales, and our results from operations. the impact of covid-19 may also exacerbate other risks discussed herein, including but not limited to those related to consumer behavior and expectations, competition, brand reputation, implementation of strategic initiatives, cybersecurity threats, technology systems disruption, supply chain disruptions, labor availability, litigation and legal proceedings, and - 10 - table of contents regulatory requirements and proceedings, any of which could have a material adverse effect on us. this situation is changing rapidly and additional impacts may arise that we are not aware of currently. reductions in third-party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third-party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. the continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pbm companies, governmental agencies, and other third-party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. in the united states, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in january and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. in addition, the timing and amount of periodic contractual reconciliations payments can vary significantly and may not follow a predictable path. further, in an environment where some pbm clients utilize narrow or restricted pharmacy provider networks, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. changes in political, economic and regulatory influences also may significantly affect healthcare financing and prescription drug reimbursement practices. in the united states, for example, there have been multiple attempts through executive action, legislative action and legal challenges to modify or repeal healthcare legislation, along with additional initiatives focused on increasing transparency and reducing costs in the u.s. healthcare system. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify or repeal these laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a modification or repeal and any subsequent legislation would have on our business and reimbursement levels. there have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce medicare part d and medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. in the event that a third-party payer's budgetary or financial condition deteriorates, they may not be able to pay timely, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in many countries where we have operations, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuous and reductions in third-party reimbursement levels could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, many payers in the united states are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates. it is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. in addition, many state medicaid fee-for-service programs have established pharmacy network payments on the basis of actual acquisition cost, which could have an impact on reimbursement practices in other commercial and governmental arrangements. future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third-party payers, could adversely affect us. a shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans, products, and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. our retail pharmacy usa division seeks to grow prescription volume while operating in a marketplace with continuous reimbursement pressure. a shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. for example, our retail pharmacy usa division has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in recent years and more recently during the covid-19 pandemic, and specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the united states and a larger proportion of our revenues. our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions, and specialty pharmacy sales are generally also lower margin. our retail pharmacy usa division also has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards medicare part d prescriptions in recent years, and that trend may continue. preferred medicare part d networks have increased in number in recent years; however, we do not participate in all such networks. we have accepted market competitive reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with medicare part d plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. we also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third-party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in the pharmacy provider networks they offer. if we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, or if the degree or terms of our participation in such preferred networks declines from current levels in future years, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. - 11 - table of contents we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed by a limited number of pharmacy benefit management companies. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by a limited number of pbm companies. pbm companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. changes in pricing and other terms of our contracts with pbm companies can significantly impact our results of operations. there can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular pbm company's pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period or on terms reasonably acceptable to us. if our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large pbm companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. if we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the pbm company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. in addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. we face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. successfully managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success, and failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance. our ability to attract, engage, develop and retain qualified and experienced employees at all levels, including in executive and other key strategic positions, is essential for us to meet our objectives. we compete with many other businesses to attract and retain employees. competition among potential employers might result in increased salaries, benefits or other employee-related costs, or in our failure to recruit and retain employees. we may experience sudden loss of key personnel due to a variety of causes, such as illness, and must adequately plan for succession of key roles. any of these risks could have a materially adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. any failure to adequately plan for and manage succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. while we have succession plans in place and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us. in july 2020, we announced a search for a new chief executive officer (ceo). we also announced that when the new ceo takes office, stefano pessina will resign as ceo and executive vice chairman of the board and be appointed as the executive chairman of the board (subject to applicable law, including fiduciary duties) and james skinner will resign as executive chairman of the board, while remaining on the board to help facilitate a smooth transition. any significant leadership change or senior management transition involves inherent risks and any failure to timely hire a qualified ceo and ensure a smooth transition could hinder the company's strategic planning, execution and future performance. changes in the senior management team also may create uncertainty among investors, employees, business partners and others concerning the company's future direction and performance. any disruption in the company's operations or adverse impacts from such uncertainties could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs. the profitability of our pharmacy businesses depends upon the utilization of prescription drugs. utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name drugs. inflation in the price of drugs also can adversely affect utilization, particularly given the increased prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. new brand name drugs can result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, delays in their introduction, or a decrease in the utilization of previously introduced prescription drugs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify - 12 - table of contents our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our expectations. consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pbm companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. if this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. if these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. new and proposed acquisitions, partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. for example, in november 2018, cvs health corporation, an integrated pharmacy health care company that operates one of the largest retail drugstore chains and pbm companies in the united states, acquired aetna, inc., one of the largest diversified health care benefits companies. changes in the participants in global sourcing enterprises relating to drug procurement, whether as a result of mergers, acquisitions or other transactions, can also have a similar effect on market dynamics and our business. in addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances. a significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. we have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. for example, in july 2020, the company announced that it plans to invest $1.0 billion in equity and convertible debt in villagemd over the next three years, including a $250 million equity investment completed in july 2020, subject to the terms of the agreement. the company and villagemd also announced plans to open 500 to 700 village medical at walgreens physician-led primary care clinics in more than 30 u.s. markets in the next five years. due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. there can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources. acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in successfully integrating the operations and personnel, navigating the necessary regulatory approval requirements, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. any failure to select suitable opportunities at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. these transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments also involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to assumed litigation and unknown environmental and other liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. no assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic partnerships and alliances will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or results of operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a timely and effective manner, our business operations and growth strategies could be adversely affected. - 13 - table of contents our strategic relationships include outsourcing and similar relationships. we outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. we rely on these third parties to meet our quality and performance requirements and to timely perform as expected. we periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. if our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with any transition, we may experience operational difficulties, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. we operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. we are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax and other governmental authorities, including those contained in note 10, commitments and contingencies, to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. for example, in january 2019, walgreen co., on behalf of itself, its subsidiaries and certain identified affiliates, resolved matters regarding certain dispensing practices by entering into, among other things, a corporate integrity agreement with the office of inspector general of the united states department of health and human services. the corporate integrity agreement has a five-year term and provides that walgreen co. shall, among other things, continue the compliance program it created to address compliance with federal health care program requirements, provide annual certifications of compliance and provide training and education for certain covered employees. failure to meet the corporate integrity agreement obligations could have material adverse consequences for us, including reputational harm and monetary penalties for each instance of non-compliance. in addition, in the event of a breach or deliberate violation of the corporate integrity agreement, we could be excluded from participation in federal healthcare programs, or subjected to other significant penalties, which could seriously harm our results of operations, liquidity and financial results. legal proceedings, in general, and securities, derivative action and class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. for example, we are a defendant in numerous litigation proceedings relating to opioid matters, including federal multidistrict litigation that consolidated numerous cases filed against an array of defendants by various plaintiffs such as counties, cities, hospitals, indian tribes, and others, as well as numerous lawsuits brought in state courts. additionally, the company has received from the department of justice and the attorney generals of numerous states subpoenas, civil investigative demands and/or other requests concerning opioid matters. from time to time, the company is also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. see note 10, commitments and contingencies, for more information. the company's financial results may also be adversely affected by the litigation and other legal proceedings of companies in which it has an equity method investment. for example, amerisourcebergen is required to publicly disclose in its sec filings certain information regarding material litigation and legal proceedings it is involved in, including those relating to opioid matters if applicable. any unfavorable outcome or settlement related to these proceedings could have a material adverse effect on the company's financial results. like other companies in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries, the company is subject to extensive regulation by national, state and local government agencies in the united states and other countries in which it operates. there continues to be a heightened level of review and/or audit by regulatory authorities of, and increased litigation regarding business, compliance and reporting practices of the company and other industry participants. as a result, the company regularly is the subject of government actions of the types described above. in addition, under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of false claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. after a private party has filed a qui tam action, the government must investigate the private party's claim and determine whether to intervene in and take control over the litigation. these actions may remain under seal while the government makes this determination. we cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. as a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. in addition, as a result of governmental investigations or proceedings, the company may be subject to damages, civil or - 14 - table of contents criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including the possible suspension or loss of licensure and/or suspension or exclusion from participation in government programs. the outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources. our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and business transformation and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. our board of directors approved the plans to implement the transformational cost management program described in "management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations" in part ii, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of these programs. our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in the transformational cost management program and other business optimization initiatives. if we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change and business transformation plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. the industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. new entrants to the market, existing competitor actions or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us. the level of competition in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries is high. changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, could materially and adversely impact us. disruptive innovation, or the perception of potentially disruptive innovation, by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such changes and if required make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. for example, in 2018, online retailer amazon.com, inc. acquired pillpack, an online pharmacy with licenses throughout the united states, helping amazon to expand into the market for prescription drugs. our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order pharmacies and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. competition may also come from other sources in the future. as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, including pressure on the convenience premium of our retail pricing model, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. for example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our pharmaceutical wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms. we also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. as technology, consumer behavior, omni-channel and differential retail models, and market conditions continue to evolve in the united states, it is important that we maintain the relevance of our brand and product and service offerings to customers and patients. in recent years, we announced that we are testing a number of concepts and initiatives designed to position our stores in the united states as convenient neighborhood health destinations for healthcare and retail products and services. the concepts being tested include new approaches to pricing and promotions, product selection, in-store and digital experience, and strategic partnerships that bring new products and services to our customers. we plan to use these pilots to listen to customers, learn and adjust based on feedback, with decisions on the nature and extent of further roll-outs made over time as we gain experience. for example, the company and villagemd announced a collaboration in april 2019 where villagemd would operate five primary care clinics next to walgreens stores in the houston, texas area and, based on the results of that pilot, in july 2020 announced plans to open 500 to 700 village medical at walgreens physician-led primary care clinics in more than 30 u.s. markets in the next five years. if our customers are not receptive to these changes, if we are unable to expand successful programs in a timely manner, or we otherwise do not effectively respond to changes in market dynamics, our businesses and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. additionally, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of - 15 - table of contents prescription drug spending in the united states, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs), that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. accordingly, it is important that we and our affiliates compete effectively in this evolving and highly competitive market, or our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. to better serve this evolving market, in march 2017, we and prime therapeutics llc, a pbm, closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, alliancerx walgreens prime, using an innovative model that seeks to align pharmacy, pbm and health plans to coordinate patient care, improve health outcomes and deliver cost of care opportunities. prime's clients are not obligated to contract through our joint venture, and have in the past, and may in the future, enter into specialty pharmacy and other agreements without involving our joint venture. if this joint venture is not able to compete effectively in this evolving and highly competitive market and successfully adapt to changing market conditions, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including: compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, immigration, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; additional u.s. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the foreign corrupt practices act, the uk bribery act and other anti-corruption laws; potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; price controls imposed by foreign countries, tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets, or fluctuations in currency rates; impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the united states, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. these factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. we cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition. many of these factors are subject to change based on changes in political, economic and regulatory influences. for example: our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions have substantial operations in the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, which resulted in the united kingdom leaving the european union on january 31, 2020. since the referendum, there have been periods of significant volatility in the global stock markets and currency exchange rates, as well as challenging market conditions in the united kingdom and many of the risks and uncertainties described above have been and may continue to be exacerbated. there is now a transition period until december 31, 2020 in which the united kingdom and european union are to negotiate a new - 16 - table of contents trading relationship for goods and services. failure to complete negotiations by the implementation deadline of december 31, 2020 could result in the united kingdom reverting to undesirable and adverse trade agreements with the european union. given the complexity and uncertainty surrounding the withdrawal and related negotiations, including with respect to terms of trade and customs, there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. the withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other parties. further, uncertainty around and developments regarding these and related issues has contributed to deteriorating market conditions and could further adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the economy of the united kingdom and the economies of other countries in which we operate and cause significant volatility in currency exchange rates; and many of the products we sell are manufactured in whole or in part outside of the united states. in some cases, these products are imported by others and sold to us. in the united states, the presidential administration has discussed, and in some cases implemented, changes with respect to certain tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. for example, concerns regarding trade relations between the united states and china have escalated in recent years and discussions have continued through the date of this report, as both countries imposed significant tariffs on the importation of certain product categories. as a significant portion of our retail products are sourced from china, the imposition on the united states of these and any additional new tariffs on certain goods imported from china have adversely affected costs and could impact the profitability of retail product sales in our retail pharmacy usa division. while it is not possible to predict whether or when any additional changes will occur or what form they may take, significant changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations between the united states and other countries could result in significant increases in our costs, restrict our access to certain suppliers and adversely impact economic activity. in addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in united states' trade policy and regulations. there can be no assurance that any or all of these developments will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. we operate or have equity method investments in more than 25 countries across the globe, and our significant presence outside of the united states exposes us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses' functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we present our financial statements in u.s. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-u.s. dollar currencies, primarily the british pound sterling and the euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. we may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us, that could materially and adversely affect us. additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency debt to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. the periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. a significant disruption in our information technology and computer systems or those of businesses we rely on could harm us. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from - 17 - table of contents power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, theft, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. in addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and infrastructure, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, outsourcing critical information technology to third parties, making changes to existing systems, including the migration of applications to the cloud, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, changes in security processes, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. we rely on strategic partners and other service providers to help us with certain significant information technology projects and services, including tata consultancy services, to whom the company is currently transitioning its it run and operational managed services, and microsoft, who is the company's strategic cloud provider and with whom the company has a strategic partnership to develop new health care delivery models, technology and retail innovations to advance and improve the future of health care. information technology projects or services frequently are long-term in nature and may take longer to complete and cost more than we expect and may not deliver the benefits we project once they are complete. furthermore, pursuing multiple initiatives simultaneously could make implementation significantly more challenging. we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and outsourcing critical information technology functions and there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant issues with our existing systems prior to implementation, that our technology initiatives will be successfully deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without significant disruption to our operations. we also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including strategic and business partners, key payers and vendors. any system implementation and transition difficulty may result in operational challenges, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. privacy and data protection laws increase our compliance burden and any failure to comply could harm us. the regulatory environment surrounding data security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses and geographic areas. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data security and privacy regulations in the jurisdictions in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. in the united states, for example, hipaa imposes extensive privacy and security requirements governing the transmission, use and disclosure of health information by covered entities in the health care industry, including health care providers such as pharmacies. in addition, the california consumer privacy act, which went into effect on january 1, 2020, imposes stringent requirements on the use and treatment of personal information of california residents, and other jurisdictions have enacted, or are proposing similar laws related to the protection of personal data. outside the united states, for example, the european union's general data protection regulation, which became effective in may 2018, greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union data protection laws and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance. other countries have enacted or are considering enacting data localization laws that require certain data to stay within their borders. complying with changing regulatory requirements requires us to incur substantial costs and may require changes to our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and operating results. we may also face audits or investigations by various government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. failure to comply with these laws subjects us to potential regulatory enforcement activity, fines, private litigation including class actions, and other costs. we also have contractual obligations that might be breached if we fail to comply. a significant privacy breach or failure to comply with privacy laws could have a materially adverse impact on our reputation, business operations, financial position and results of operations. we and businesses we interact with experience cybersecurity incidents and might experience significant computer system compromises or data breaches. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach or theft of customer, employee, or company data, could create significant - 18 - table of contents workflow disruption, attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships, reputation and brand, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. in addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. we also depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including payers, strategic partners and cloud service providers. these third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. like other global companies, we and businesses we interact with have experienced threats to data and systems, including from vandalism or theft of physical systems or media and from perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyber-attacks, computer viruses, worms, phishing attacks, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information, and cause system failures and disruptions. compromises of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact which result in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, have in the past and could in the future adversely impact us. any such compromise could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our reputation, business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, security incidents may require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses. the risks associated with data security and cybersecurity incidents have increased during the covid-19 pandemic given the increased reliance on remote work arrangements. a significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. we operate in complex, highly regulated environments around the world and could be materially and adversely affected by changes to applicable legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing, billing practices, utilization and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country and state registration and regulation of pharmacies and drug discount card programs; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including hipaa; the aca or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, each of which continues to evolve, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and drug enforcement administration ( dea ), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell as well as our loyalty and drug discount card programs; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the profession of pharmacy. for example, in the united states, the dea, fda and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters as well as employee benefit, competition and antitrust matters. in addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party's intellectual property rights. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely - 19 - table of contents compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states and the national health service in the united kingdom; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and brand, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control, anti-money laundering and economic and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the uk bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, u.s. export control, economic and trade sanctions, or anti-money laundering laws or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws or to have otherwise conducted business activities inappropriately or unethically, including through acts of bribery, corruption, conflicts of interest, fraud, manipulation of records or dealings with inappropriate business counterparties or partners, we may face penalties, sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export licenses. in addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. the loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as covid-19 or other health epidemics or pandemics, labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, a supplier's financial distress, natural disasters, looting, vandalism or acts of war or terrorism, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our retail pharmacy usa division. in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between walgreens and amerisourcebergen pursuant to which we source branded and generic pharmaceutical products from amerisourcebergen in the united states and an agreement which provides amerisourcebergen the ability to access generic pharmaceutical products through our global sourcing enterprise. in may 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. in addition, in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right to purchase a minority equity position in amerisourcebergen and gain associated representation on amerisourcebergen's board of directors in certain circumstances. as of the date of this report, amerisourcebergen distributes for our retail pharmacy usa division substantially all branded and generic pharmaceutical products. consequently, our business in the united states may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that amerisourcebergen experiences, including those resulting from covid-19. for example, if amerisourcebergen's operations are seriously - 20 - table of contents disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, pandemic, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the united states and our results of operations. our distribution agreement with amerisourcebergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or amerisourcebergen will be willing to renew the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. if such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any such expiration or termination would be temporary. however, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with amerisourcebergen may not be realized. as of august 31, 2020, we beneficially owned approximately 28% of the outstanding amerisourcebergen common stock and had designated one nominee for election to amerisourcebergen's board of directors. in addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework agreement dated as of march 18, 2013 by and among the company, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen (the framework agreement ) to acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 amerisourcebergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another nominee for election to amerisourcebergen's board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. there can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in amerisourcebergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable. the company accounts for its investment in amerisourcebergen using the equity method of accounting, subject to a two-month reporting lag, with the net earnings attributable to the investment classified within the operating income of the company's pharmaceutical wholesale segment. the financial performance of amerisourcebergen, including any charges which may arise relating to its ongoing opioid litigation matters, will impact the company's results of operations. additionally, a substantial and sustained decline in the price of amerisourcebergen's common stock could trigger an impairment evaluation of our investment. these considerations may materially and adversely affect the company's financial condition and results of operations. further, our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with amerisourcebergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration resulting from these agreements. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. from time to time, we make debt or equity investments in companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. for example, while we have a significant equity investment in amerisourcebergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of amerisourcebergen as of the date of this report, we do not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. some of the businesses in which we have made noncontrolling investments operate in markets or industries that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. for example we have an equity investment in villagemd, a leading provider of value-based primary care services in the united states, and sinopharm holding guoda drugstores co., ltd., a leading retail pharmacy chain in china. investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic partnerships and alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. - 21 - table of contents changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. these conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. external factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, inflation, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, health epidemics or pandemics (such as covid-19), as well as looting, vandalism, acts of war or terrorism. changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending as well as in prescription drug and health services utilization and which could be exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. our business operations have been adversely affected by challenging market conditions in our retail pharmacy international division, particularly our boots business in the united kingdom, on account of the economic environment, including the impacts of covid-19 and the uncertainty associated with brexit. in addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. all of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers occurring online and through mobile applications has continued to increase and has accelerated significantly during the covid-19 pandemic. the pace of this increase could further accelerate in the future. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. omni-channel and differentiated retail models are rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases, as well as to provide immediate public reactions regarding various facets of our operations. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner that keeps pace with technological developments and dynamic customer expectations, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations. if the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. the success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, engaging customer service and a quality assortment of available merchandise that differentiates us from other retailers, including enhanced health and beauty product offerings. we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. for example, our proof of concept initiatives that seek to position our stores in the united states as convenient neighborhood health destinations for healthcare and retail products and services reflect the perceived desires and needs of our target market. however, it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. if we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. in addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer tastes, preferences and spending patterns and evolving demographic mixes in the markets we serve could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. in addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that in many instances, are not available from other retailers. we seek to continue to grow our private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the offering of no7 and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and - 22 - table of contents developing and maintaining customer loyalty. the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. an increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are subject to payment-related and other financial services risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies such as apple pay , and we may offer new payment options over time. acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. these requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which has made and could continue to make compliance more difficult or costly. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over time and raise our operating costs. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. if these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. the payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. in addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. additionally, we offer money (wire) transfer services and sell prepaid debit, credit and gift cards at certain business units. these products and services require us to comply with global anti-money laundering laws and regulations. failure to comply with these laws and regulations could result in fines, sanctions, penalties and damage to our reputation. changes in the healthcare industry and regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare and medicaid funding in the united states and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing, and these pressures could be further exacerbated if payer deficits or shortfalls increase due to covid-19 or otherwise. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies and practices as well as applicable government regulations, including, for example, in connection with the federal 340b drug pricing program, could also significantly reduce our profitability. in the united states, electoral results and changes in political leadership often generate uncertainty with respect to, and could result in, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our businesses and the healthcare and retail industries. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify healthcare laws or regulations and/or adopt new healthcare legislation or regulations will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments could impact the number of americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. we cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. - 23 - table of contents we could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues. we could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective or expired products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labeling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. through our pharmacies and specialist packaging sites, including through services provided by third-party health care providers, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we offer. errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals, including related counseling, and in the provision of other healthcare services could lead to serious injury or death. product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the retail products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. for example, from time to time, the fda issues statements alerting patients that products in our supply chain may contain impurities or harmful substances, and claims relating to the sale or distribution of such products may be asserted against us or arise from these statements. our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims and judgments. we also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. we could suffer significant reputational damage and financial liability if we, or any affiliated entities or third-party healthcare providers that we do business with, experience any of the foregoing health and safety issues or incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. in an effort to strengthen our liquidity position while navigating covid-19, we took a number of proactive steps in fiscal 2020, including the issuance of long-term debt, entering into new revolving credit facilities and extending an existing facility, and establishing a euro commercial paper program, as described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations-liquidity and capital resources below. as of august 31, 2020, we had approximately $16 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term debt. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions and making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. we may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. if we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. we also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. additionally, a portion of our indebtedness bears interest at fluctuating interest rates, some of which is tied to the london interbank offered rate for deposits of u.s. dollars ( libor ). libor tends to fluctuate based on general interest rates, rates set by the federal reserve and other central banks, the supply of and demand for credit in the london interbank market and general economic conditions. in july 2017, the united kingdom financial conduct authority, which regulates libor, announced that it intends to stop compelling banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. moreover, it is possible that libor may be discontinued prior to the end of 2021. certain of our credit facilities provide that, under certain circumstances set forth in such credit facilities, we and the administrative agent may amend the applicable credit facility to replace libor with an alternate benchmark rate, giving due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similar syndicated credit facilities in the u.s. market for alternative benchmarks. the expected phase out of libor and transition to and use of an alternative benchmark rate could cause market volatility or disruption and may adversely affect our access to the capital markets and cost of funding. - 24 - table of contents our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. in addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. if we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. this could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. we could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. financial and credit markets have experienced and may continue to experience significant volatility and turmoil during the covid-19 pandemic. our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. the major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings as of the date of this report. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. we benefit from investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. for more information on our ratings, see management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations - liquidity and capital resources - credit ratings below. there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant, which in some circumstances could adversely affect benefits we currently enjoy. incurrence of additional debt by us and our changes in our operating performance, whether due to business operations, covid-19, legal proceedings or otherwise, could adversely affect our credit ratings. we depend on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to our business and perform under our agreements with them. defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect us. any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any actual or anticipated downgrade of our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, financial covenants, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. in addition, we utilize working capital financing arrangements, including receivable factoring programs. changes in financial markets or interest rates could make these financing arrangements less attractive to the financial institutions and other counterparties and these financial institutions and other counterparties may seek to terminate their participation. in the event of such termination, our ability to effectively manage working capital could be adversely impacted. we may be unable to keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. in addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. the terms of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of, or requested modifications to, those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. for example, we announced plans as part of our transformational cost management program to exit approximately 200 boots stores in the united kingdom and approximately 250 stores in the united states. if we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. if we are unable to maintain our existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as a holding company, walgreens boots alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. walgreens boots alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. as a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including walgreens and international subsidiaries, to meet its obligations. - 25 - table of contents additionally, walgreens boots alliance's subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to walgreens boots alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of walgreens boots alliance common stock. credit facilities and other debt obligations of walgreens boots alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of walgreens boots alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. payments to walgreens boots alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. future walgreens boots alliance dividends will be determined based on earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by its board of directors. our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis, including increased variability during the covid-19 pandemic, and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the impact and duration of covid-19, the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; seasonality, including the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes or rates of change in payer reimbursement rates and terms; the timing and amount of periodic contractual reconciliation payments, fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges, including the performance of and impairment charges related to our equity method investments; the relative magnitude of our lifo provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; market conditions, including any impact relating to brexit; severe weather in key markets, widespread looting or vandalism; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not place undue reliance on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (december, january and february) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. we purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. this could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. we could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, equity method investments, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, pension and postretirement benefits, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. for example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the company's reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit or asset group. factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries in which they operate. although our current accounting estimates contemplate current and expected future conditions, as applicable, actual conditions could differ from our expectations, which could adversely affect our results of operations and financial position. in particular, a number of estimates have been and will continue to be affected by the ongoing covid-19 pandemic. the severity, magnitude and duration, as well as the economic consequences of covid-19, are uncertain, rapidly changing and difficult to predict. as a result, our accounting estimates and assumptions may change over time. such changes could result in - 26 - table of contents future impairments of goodwill, intangible assets, long-lived assets, excess and obsolete inventory, or a decrease in the carrying amount of our deferred tax assets, which could be material. new accounting guidance also may require changes to our processes, accounting systems and internal controls that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. implementing new accounting guidance may require us to make significant changes to and investments in our accounting systems and processes, which could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. see, new accounting pronouncements, within note 1, summary of major accounting policies, to the consolidated financial statements. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. as of august 31, 2020, we had $26.0 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets on our consolidated balance sheets. we evaluate this goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that could more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit or indefinite-lived intangible asset below its carrying value. as part of this impairment analysis, we determine fair value for each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. we determine fair value of indefinite-lived intangible assets using the relief from royalty method and excess earnings method of the income approach. definite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt and equity, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization, whether due to covid-19 or otherwise. for example, during the three months ended may 31, 2020, the company completed a quantitative impairment analysis for goodwill and certain indefinite-lived intangible assets related to its two reporting units, within retail pharmacy international division, and based on this analysis, recorded impairment charges of $1.7 billion on boots goodwill and $0.3 billion on certain indefinite-lived boots tradename assets. see note 6, goodwill and other intangible assets, to the consolidated financial statements and management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 below for additional information. there can be no assurance that further impairments will not occur. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are a large corporation with operations in the united states and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. as the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. from time to time, changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. for example, the u.s. tax legislation enacted in december 2017 represented a significant overhaul of the u.s. federal tax code that impacted our u.s. federal income tax position. there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the united states and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the determination of our income tax provision and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. the ultimate tax determination may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our results of operations in the period or periods for which such determination is made. any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any changes in enacted tax laws (such as the recent u.s. tax legislation), rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. - 27 - table of contents we might experience substantial losses not covered by insurance. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers' liability; and employee healthcare benefits. provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. substantial, unanticipated losses or liabilities, including those due to natural disasters or otherwise, as well as changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. we operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the united kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. the valuation of the pension plans' assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. this valuation is particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of september 30, 2020, stefano pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer (together with his affiliates, the sp investors ), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 16.9% of our outstanding common stock. the sp investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the company's stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). the sp investors' significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. the influence of the sp investors could result in the company taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could arise between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which our directors or officers are involved. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the company and other parties to the company shareholders agreement (as defined herein), including the sp investors. mr. pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, indirectly controls alliance sant participations s.a. ( asp ), a privately-held company which is a party to the company shareholders agreement, and he and his partner ornella barra, our co-chief operating officer, serve as directors of asp. there are other arrangements between affiliates of mr. pessina and the company, with required disclosures included in the company's annual proxy statement, including with respect to alliance healthcare italia spa, which is an entity indirectly owned and controlled by mr. pessina and in which the company has an indirect 9% interest, which operates boots branded stores in italy. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, or similar issues could arise in connection with these or other transactions in the future. while our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties' conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our board or impede a takeover. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. these provisions include - 28 - table of contents the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by the board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. we are also subject to the provisions of section 203 of the dgcl, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. under the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the board (currently stefano pessina) for so long as the sp investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). while these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. in june 2018, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $10 billion of our common stock. the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares, on any particular timetable or at all. there can be no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices. activity under this program was suspended in july 2020 and there can be no assurance whether or when activity will resume. if resumed, the repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition to the other risk factors identified herein that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; issuances or sales of our common stock (or the exercise of related registration rights), including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the sp investors and certain other former alliance boots stockholders, subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the company shareholders agreement ) with certain of the sp investors; and various other market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors or speculation, whether or not correct, involving or affecting us or our industries, vendors, customers, strategic partners or competitors. there are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results. many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: - 29 - table of contents our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs; inflation, new or increased taxes, changes in market conditions or otherwise; natural disasters, severe weather conditions, looting, vandalism, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events; liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular, along with changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery; adverse publicity and potential losses, liabilities and reputational harm stemming from any public incident or practice (whether occurring online, in social media, in our stores or other company facilities, or elsewhere) involving our company, our personnel or our brands, including any such public incident or practice involving our customers, products, services, stores or other property, or those of any of our vendors or other parties with which we do business; and negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damaging our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of any of our vendors or strategic allies. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk the company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing variable-rate debt instruments and future incurrences of fixed or variable-rate debt, which exposure primarily relates to movements in various interest rates, such as u.s treasury rates and commercial paper rates. from time to time, the company uses interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed-rate versus floating-rate debt. generally under these swaps, the company agrees with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. the chief executive of the uk financial conduct authority (the fca ), which regulates the london interbank offered rate, or libor, has announced that the fca will no longer compel libor panel banks to submit rates for the calculation of libor after 2021. that announcement indicates that the continuation of libor on the current basis will not be guaranteed after 2021. moreover, it is possible that libor may be discontinued prior to the end of 2021. certain of our credit facilities provide that, under certain circumstances set forth in such credit facilities, we and the administrative agent may amend the applicable credit facility to replace libor with an alternate benchmark rate, giving due consideration to any evolving or then existing convention for similar syndicated credit facilities in the u.s. market for alternative benchmarks. such alternative benchmark rate could include the secured overnight financing rate, also known as sofr, published by the federal reserve bank of new york information regarding the company's transactions are set forth in note 8, financial instruments, to the consolidated financial statements. these financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. on august 31, 2020, the company had no material long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. the amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the british pound sterling and euro, and certain other foreign currencies, which may affect its net investment in foreign subsidiaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. the company is also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the u.s. dollar. the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows. these transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. in addition, the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions). under certain market conditions, the company may seek to protect against possible declines in the reported net investments of our foreign subsidiaries by using foreign currency cross-currency swaps, foreign currency forward-exchange contracts or foreign currency debt. the company's foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. a hypothetical 1% change in foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of the foreign currency derivatives held as of august 31, 2020, by approximately $25 million. the foreign currency derivatives are intended to partially hedge anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. equity price risk changes in amerisourcebergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in amerisourcebergen described in note 5, equity method investments, to the consolidated financial statements. see --investment in amerisourcebergen above. - 61 - table of contentsrisk factors 8 risk factors in addition to the other information in this report and our other filings with the sec, you should carefully consider the risks described below, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. these risks are not the only risks that we face. our business operations could also be affected by additional factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial. reductions in third-party reimbursement levels, from private or governmental agency plans, and potential changes in industry pricing benchmarks for prescription drugs could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. the substantial majority of the prescriptions we fill are reimbursed by third-party payers, including private and governmental agency payers. the continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pbm companies, governmental agencies, and other third-party payers to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, as well as litigation and other legal proceedings relating to how drugs are priced, may adversely impact our results of operations. in the united states, plan changes with rate adjustments often occur in january and our reimbursement arrangements may provide for rate adjustments at prescribed intervals during their term. in addition, in an environment where some pbm clients utilize narrow or restricted pharmacy provider networks, some of these entities may offer pricing terms that we may not be willing to accept or otherwise restrict our participation in their networks of pharmacy providers. changes in political, economic and regulatory influences also may significantly affect healthcare financing and prescription drug reimbursement practices. in the united states, for example, there have been multiple attempts through executive action, legislative action and legal challenges to modify or repeal the aca. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify or repeal these laws will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a modification or repeal and any - 8 - table of contents subsequent legislation would have on our business and reimbursement levels. there have also been a number of other proposals and enactments by the federal government and various states to reduce medicare part d and medicaid reimbursement levels in response to budget deficits, and we expect additional proposals in the future. in the event that a third-party payer's budgetary or financial condition deteriorates, they may not be able to pay timely, or may delay payment of, amounts owed to us. there can be no assurance that recent or future changes in prescription drug reimbursement policies and practices will not materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in many countries where we have operations, the government provides or subsidizes healthcare to consumers and regulates pharmaceutical prices, patient eligibility and reimbursement levels to control costs for the government-sponsored healthcare system. efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are continuous and reductions in third-party reimbursement levels could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, many payers in the united states are increasingly considering new metrics as the basis for reimbursement rates. it is possible that the pharmaceutical industry or regulators may evaluate and/or develop an alternative pricing reference to replace average wholesale price, which is the pricing reference used for many of our contracts. in addition, many state medicaid fee-for-service programs have established pharmacy network payments on the basis of actual acquisition cost, which could have an impact on reimbursement practices in other commercial and governmental arrangements. future changes to the pricing benchmarks used to establish pharmaceutical pricing, including changes in the basis for calculating reimbursement by third-party payers, could adversely affect us. a shift in pharmacy mix toward lower margin plans and programs could adversely affect our results of operations. our retail pharmacy usa division seeks to grow prescription volume while operating in a marketplace with continuous reimbursement pressure. a shift in the mix of pharmacy prescription volume towards programs offering lower reimbursement rates could adversely affect our results of operations. for example, our retail pharmacy usa division has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards 90-day at retail in recent years. our 90-day at retail offering for patients with chronic prescription needs typically is at a lower margin than comparable 30-day prescriptions. our retail pharmacy usa division also has experienced a shift in pharmacy mix towards medicare part d prescriptions in recent years, and that trend may continue. preferred medicare part d networks have increased in number in recent years; however, we do not participate in all such networks. we have accepted lower reimbursement rates in order to secure preferred relationships with medicare part d plans serving senior patients with significant pharmacy needs. we also have worked to develop and expand our relationships with commercial third-party payers to enable new and/or improved market access via participation in the pharmacy provider networks they offer. if we are not able to generate additional prescription volume and other business from patients participating in these programs that is sufficient to offset the impact of lower reimbursement, or if the degree or terms of our participation in such preferred networks declines from current levels in future years, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed by a limited number of pharmacy benefit management companies. we derive a significant portion of our sales in the united states from prescription drug sales reimbursed through prescription drug plans administered by a limited number of pbm companies. pbm companies typically administer multiple prescription drug plans that expire at various times and provide for varying reimbursement rates, and often limit coverage to specific drug products on an approved list, known as a formulary, which might not include all of the approved drugs for a particular indication. there can be no assurance that we will continue to participate in any particular pbm company's pharmacy provider network in any particular future time period. if our participation in the pharmacy provider network for a prescription drug plan administered by one or more of the large pbm companies is restricted or terminated, we expect that our sales would be adversely affected, at least in the short-term. if we are unable to replace any such lost sales, either through an increase in other sales or through a resumption of participation in those plans, our operating results could be materially and adversely affected. if we exit a pharmacy provider network and later resume participation, there can be no assurance that we will achieve any particular level of business on any particular pace, or that all clients of the pbm company will choose to include us again in the pharmacy network for their plans, initially or at all. in addition, in such circumstances we may incur increased marketing and other costs in connection with initiatives to regain former patients and attract new patients covered by such plans. we could be adversely affected by a decrease in the introduction of new brand name and generic prescription drugs as well as increases in the cost to procure prescription drugs. the profitability of our pharmacy businesses depends upon the utilization of prescription drugs. utilization trends are affected by, among other factors, the introduction of new and successful prescription drugs as well as lower-priced generic alternatives to existing brand name drugs. inflation in the price of drugs also can adversely affect utilization, particularly given the increased prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. new brand name drugs can - 9 - table of contents result in increased drug utilization and associated sales, while the introduction of lower priced generic alternatives typically results in relatively lower sales, but relatively higher gross profit margins. accordingly, a decrease in the number or magnitude of significant new brand name drugs or generics successfully introduced, delays in their introduction, or a decrease in the utilization of previously introduced prescription drugs, could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. in addition, if we experience an increase in the amounts we pay to procure pharmaceutical drugs, including generic drugs, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. our gross profit margins would be adversely affected to the extent we are not able to offset such cost increases. any failure to fully offset any such increased prices and costs or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations. additionally, any future changes in drug prices could be significantly different than our expectations. consolidation and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business operations, competitive positioning, financial condition and results of operations. many organizations in the healthcare industry, including pbm companies, have consolidated in recent years to create larger healthcare enterprises with greater bargaining power, which has resulted in greater pricing pressures. if this consolidation trend continues, it could give the resulting enterprises even greater bargaining power, which may lead to further pressure on the prices for our products and services. if these pressures result in reductions in our prices, our businesses would become less profitable unless we are able to achieve corresponding reductions in costs or develop profitable new revenue streams. new and proposed acquisitions, partnerships and strategic alliances in the healthcare industry also can alter market dynamics and impact our businesses and competitive positioning. for example, in december 2017, cvs health corporation, an integrated pharmacy health care company that operates one of the largest retail drugstore chains and pbm companies in the united states, announced an agreement to acquire aetna, inc., one of the largest diversified health care benefits companies, subject to certain closing conditions. changes in the participants in global sourcing enterprises relating to drug procurement, whether as a result of mergers, acquisitions or other transactions, can also have a similar effect on market dynamics and our business. in addition, further consolidation among generic drug manufacturers could lead to generic drug inflation in the future. we expect that market demand, government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and other pressures will continue to cause the healthcare industry to evolve, potentially resulting in further business consolidations and alliances and increased vertical integration among the industry participants we engage with, and which could, if we are not able to successfully anticipate and respond to evolving industry conditions in a timely and effective manner, materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. our growth strategy is partially dependent upon our ability to identify and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances. a significant element of our growth strategy is to identify, pursue and successfully complete acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances that either expand or complement our existing operations. we have grown significantly through acquisitions in recent years and expect to continue to acquire, partner with or invest in businesses that build on or are deemed complementary to our existing businesses or further our strategic objectives. due in part to consolidation in the industries in which we compete, there is significant competition for attractive targets and opportunities when available. there can be no assurance that attractive acquisition or other strategic relationship opportunities will be available, that we will be successful in identifying, negotiating and consummating favorable transaction opportunities, or that any such transactions we complete will be successful and justify our investment of financial and other resources therein. acquisitions and other strategic transactions involve numerous risks, including difficulties in successfully integrating the operations and personnel, distraction of management from overseeing, and disruption of, our existing operations, difficulties in entering markets or lines of business in which we have no or limited direct prior experience, the possible loss of key employees and customers, and difficulties in achieving the synergies we anticipated. any failure to select suitable opportunities at fair prices, conduct appropriate due diligence and successfully integrate the acquired company, including particularly when acquired businesses operate in new geographic markets or areas of business, could materially and adversely impact our financial condition and results of operations. these transactions may also cause us to significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition or investment, issue common stock that would dilute our current stockholders' percentage ownership, or incur asset write-offs and restructuring costs and other related expenses that could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments also involve numerous other risks, including potential exposure to assumed litigation and unknown environmental and other liabilities, as well as undetected internal control, regulatory or other issues, or additional costs not anticipated at the time the transaction was completed. no assurance can be given that our acquisitions, joint ventures and other strategic alliances will be successful and will not materially adversely affect our business operations, financial condition or - 10 - table of contents results of operations. if we are unable to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments in a timely and effective manner, our business operations and growth strategies could be negatively affected. our strategic relationships include outsourcing and similar relationships. we outsource certain business and administrative functions and rely on third parties to perform certain services on our behalf. for example, in 2017 we entered into a 10-year global agreement with fareva for the manufacture and supply of own beauty brands and private label products. under the terms of the agreement, fareva acquired bcm, walgreens boots alliance's contract manufacturing business, in october 2017. we rely on these third parties to meet our quality and performance requirements and to timely perform as expected. we periodically negotiate provisions and renewals of these relationships, and there can be no assurance that such terms will remain acceptable to us or such third parties. if our continuing relationship with certain third-party providers is interrupted, or if such third-party providers experience disruptions or do not perform as anticipated, or we experience problems with any transition, we may experience operational difficulties, reputational harm, and increased costs that could materially and adversely affect our business operations and results of operations. we may not realize the anticipated benefits of the acquisition of assets from rite aid pursuant to the amended and restated asset purchase agreement, which could adversely impact our results of operations. we entered into the amended and restated asset purchase agreement to acquire certain rite aid stores and distribution centers with the expectation that the transaction will result in various benefits, including, among other things, cost savings and operating efficiencies. the achievement of the anticipated benefits of the transaction is subject to a number of uncertainties, including completion of the pending acquisition of distribution centers and related inventory expected to begin during fiscal 2019, whether the acquired assets can be integrated into our business in an efficient and effective manner, the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations regarding potential synergies and the integration process, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. we can provide no assurance that the anticipated benefits of the transaction, including cost savings and synergies, will be fully realized in the time frame anticipated or at all; the costs or difficulties related to the integration of the acquired assets into our business and operations will not be greater than expected; unanticipated costs, charges and expenses will not result from the transaction; litigation relating to the transaction will not be filed; and the transaction will not cause disruption to the parties' business and operations and relationships with employees and suppliers, payers, customers and other third parties. if one or more of these risks are realized, it could have a material adverse impact on our operating results. we could also encounter unforeseen transaction and integration-related costs or other circumstances, such as unforeseen liabilities or other issues resulting from the transaction. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention, which could adversely impact our agility to respond to market opportunities and our ability to timely identify and implement other strategic actions. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, we have incurred significant transaction costs related to the transaction and expect to continue to incur significant integration and related costs as we integrate the acquired rite aid assets. these integration and acquisition-related costs, including legal, accounting, financial and tax advisory and other fees and costs, may be higher than expected and some of these costs may be material. our business results depend on our ability to successfully manage ongoing organizational change and business transformation and achieve cost savings and operating efficiency initiatives. our board of directors approved the plan to implement the store optimization program described in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations in part ii, item 7 below as part of an initiative to reduce costs and increase operating efficiencies. there can be no assurance that we will realize, in full or in part, the anticipated benefits of this program. our financial goals assume a level of productivity improvement, including those reflected in the store optimization program and other business optimization initiatives. if we are unable to deliver these expected productivity improvements, while continuing to invest in business growth, or if the volume and nature of change overwhelms available resources, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely impacted. our ability to successfully manage and execute these initiatives and realize expected savings and benefits in the amounts and at the times anticipated is important to our business success. any failure to do so, which could result from our inability to successfully execute organizational change and business transformation plans, changes in global or regional economic conditions, competition, changes in the industries in which we compete, unanticipated costs or charges, loss of key personnel and other factors described herein, could have a material adverse effect on our businesses, financial condition and results of operations. - 11 - table of contents the industries in which we operate are highly competitive and constantly evolving. new entrants to the market, existing competitor actions or other changes in market dynamics could adversely impact us. the level of competition in the retail pharmacy and pharmaceutical wholesale industries is high. changes in market dynamics or actions of competitors or manufacturers, including industry consolidation and the emergence of new competitors and strategic alliances, could materially and adversely impact us. disruptive innovation, or the perception of potentially disruptive innovation, by existing or new competitors could alter the competitive landscape in the future and require us to accurately identify and assess such changes and if required make timely and effective changes to our strategies and business model to compete effectively. for example, in june 2018, online retailer amazon.com, inc. announced its pending acquisition of pillpack, an online pharmacy with licenses throughout the united states, subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions. some industry analysts have speculated that the acquisition, if completed, could provide a platform for amazon to significantly expand into the market for prescription drugs. our retail pharmacy businesses face intense competition from local, regional, national and global companies, including other drugstore and pharmacy chains, independent drugstores and pharmacies, mail-order pharmacies and various other retailers such as grocery stores, convenience stores, mass merchants, online and omni-channel pharmacies and retailers, warehouse clubs, dollar stores and other discount merchandisers, some of which are aggressively expanding in markets we serve. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division face intense competition from direct competitors, including national and regional cooperative wholesalers, and alternative supply sources such as importers and manufacturers who supply directly to pharmacies. competition may also come from other sources in the future. as competition increases in the markets in which we operate, a significant increase in general pricing pressures could occur, which could require us to reevaluate our pricing structures to remain competitive. for example, if we are not able to anticipate and successfully respond to changes in market conditions in our pharmaceutical wholesale division, including changes driven by competitors, suppliers or manufacturers and increased competition from national and regional cooperative wholesalers, it could result in a loss of customers or renewal of contracts or arrangements on less favorable terms. we also could be adversely affected if we fail to identify or effectively respond to changes in market dynamics. as technology, consumer behavior and market conditions continue to evolve in the united states, it is important that we maintain the relevance of our brand and product and service offerings to customers and patients. in april 2018, we announced that we are testing a number of concepts and initiatives designed to position our stores in the united states as convenient community hubs for healthcare and retail products and services. the concepts being tested include new approaches to pricing and promotions, product selection, in-store and digital experience, and strategic partnerships that bring new products and services to our customers. we plan to use these pilots to listen to customers, learn and adjust based on feedback, with decisions on the nature and extent of further roll-outs made over time as we gain experience. if our customers are not receptive to these changes, if we are unable to expand successful programs in a timely manner, or we otherwise do not effectively respond to changes in market dynamics, our businesses and financial performance could be materially and adversely affected. as a further example, specialty pharmacy represents a significant and growing proportion of prescription drug spending in the united states, a significant portion of which is dispensed outside of traditional retail pharmacies. because our specialty pharmacy business focuses on complex and high-cost medications, many of which are made available by manufacturers to a limited number of pharmacies (so-called limited distribution drugs), that serve a relatively limited universe of patients, the future growth of this business depends to a significant extent upon expanding our ability to access key drugs and successfully penetrate key treatment categories. accordingly, it is important that we and our affiliates compete effectively in this evolving market, or our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. to better serve this evolving market, in march 2017, we and prime therapeutics llc, a pbm, closed a transaction to form a combined central specialty pharmacy and mail services company, alliancerx walgreens prime, using an innovative model that seeks to align pharmacy, pbm and health plans to coordinate patient care, improve health outcomes and deliver cost of care opportunities. if this joint venture is not able to compete effectively in this evolving market and successfully adapt to changing market conditions, our business operations, financial condition and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. our substantial international business operations subject us to a number of operating, economic, political, regulatory and other international business risks. our substantial international business operations are important to our growth and prospects, including particularly those of our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions, and are subject to a number of risks, including: compliance with a wide variety of foreign laws and regulations, including retail and wholesale pharmacy, licensing, tax, foreign trade, intellectual property, privacy and data protection, immigration, currency, political and other business restrictions and requirements and local laws and regulations, whose interpretation and enforcement vary significantly among jurisdictions and can change significantly over time; - 12 - table of contents additional u.s. and other regulation of non-domestic operations, including regulation under the foreign corrupt practices act, the u.k. bribery act and other anti-corruption laws; potential difficulties in managing foreign operations, mitigating credit risks in foreign markets, enforcing agreements and collecting receivables through foreign legal systems; price controls imposed by foreign countries; tariffs, duties or other restrictions on foreign currencies or trade sanctions and other trade barriers imposed by foreign countries that restrict or prohibit business transactions in certain markets; potential adverse tax consequences, including tax withholding laws and policies and restrictions on repatriation of funds to the united states; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; impact of recessions and economic slowdowns in economies outside the united states, including foreign currency devaluation, higher interest rates, inflation, and increased government regulation or ownership of traditional private businesses; the instability of foreign economies, governments and currencies and unexpected regulatory, economic or political changes in foreign markets; and developing and emerging markets may be especially vulnerable to periods of instability and unexpected changes, and consumers in those markets may have relatively limited resources to spend on products and services. these factors can also adversely affect our payers, vendors and customers in international markets, which in turn can negatively impact our businesses. we cannot assure you that one or more of these factors will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operation and financial condition. many of these factors are subject to change based on changes in political, economic and regulatory influences. for example: our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions have substantial operations in the united kingdom and other member countries of the european union. in june 2016, voters in the united kingdom approved an advisory referendum to withdraw from the european union, which proposed exit (and the political, economic and other uncertainties it has raised) has exacerbated and may further exacerbate many of the risks and uncertainties described above. subsequently, in march 2017, the united kingdom's government invoked article 50 of the treaty on european union, which formally triggered the two-year negotiation process to exit the european union. negotiations to determine the united kingdom's future relationship with the european union, including terms of trade, are complex, and there can be no assurance regarding the terms, timing or consummation of any such arrangements. the proposed withdrawal could, among other potential outcomes, adversely affect the tax, tax treaty, currency, operational, legal and regulatory regimes to which our businesses in the region are subject. the withdrawal could also, among other potential outcomes, disrupt the free movement of goods, services and people between the united kingdom and the european union and significantly disrupt trade between the united kingdom and the european union and other parties. further, uncertainty around and developments regarding these and related issues could adversely impact consumer and investor confidence and the economy of the united kingdom and the economies of other countries in which we operate and cause significant volatility in currency exchange rates. many of the products we sell are manufactured in whole or in part outside of the united states. in some cases, these products are imported by others and sold to us. in the united states, the presidential administration has discussed, and in some cases implemented, changes with respect to certain tax and trade policies, tariffs and other government regulations affecting trade between the united states and other countries. for example, there are growing concerns regarding trade relations between the united states and china, as both countries recently indicated their intention to impose significant tariffs on the importation of certain product categories. as a significant portion of our retail products are sourced from china, the imposition on the united states of new tariffs on certain goods imported from china could adversely impact the cost and profitability of retail product sales in our retail pharmacy usa division. while it is not possible to predict whether or when any future changes will occur or what form they may take, significant changes in tax or trade policies, tariffs or trade relations between the united states and other countries could result in significant increases in our costs, restrict our access to certain suppliers and adversely impact economic - 13 - table of contents activity. in addition, other countries may change their business and trade policies in anticipation of or in response to increased import tariffs and other changes in united states trade policy and regulations. there can be no assurance that any or all of these developments will not have a material adverse effect on our business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we are exposed to risks associated with foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. our significant operations outside of the united states expose us to currency exchange rate fluctuations and related risks, including transaction currency exposures relating to the import and export of goods in currencies other than businesses' functional currencies as well as currency translation exposures relating to profits and net assets denominated in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. we present our financial statements in u.s. dollars and have a significant proportion of net assets and income in non-u.s. dollar currencies, primarily the british pound sterling and the euro, as well as a range of other foreign currencies. our results of operations and capital ratios can therefore be sensitive to movements in foreign exchange rates. due to the constantly changing currency exposures to which we are subject and the volatility of currency exchange rates, we cannot predict the effect of exchange rate fluctuations upon our future results of operations. in addition, fluctuations in currencies relative to the u.s. dollar may make it more difficult to perform period-to-period comparisons of our reported results of operations. a depreciation of non-u.s. dollar currencies relative to the u.s. dollar could have a significant adverse impact on our results of operations. we may from time to time, in some instances, enter into foreign currency contracts or other derivative instruments intended to hedge a portion of our foreign currency fluctuation risks, which subjects us to additional risks, such as the risk that counterparties may fail to honor their obligations to us, that could materially and adversely affect us. additionally, we may (and currently do) use foreign currency debt to hedge some of our foreign currency fluctuation risks. the periodic use of such hedging activities may not offset any or more than a portion of the adverse financial effects of unfavorable movements in foreign exchange rates over the limited time the hedges are in place. we cannot assure you that fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, including particularly the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against major currencies or the currencies of large developing countries, will not materially affect our consolidated financial results. disruption in our global supply chain could negatively impact our businesses. the products we sell are sourced from a wide variety of domestic and international vendors, and any future disruption in our supply chain or inability to find qualified vendors and access products that meet requisite quality and safety standards in a timely and efficient manner could adversely impact our businesses. the loss or disruption of such supply arrangements for any reason, including for issues such as labor disputes, loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites, inability to procure sufficient raw materials, quality control issues, ethical sourcing issues, a supplier's financial distress, natural disasters, civil unrest or acts of war or terrorism, trade sanctions or other external factors over which we have no control, could interrupt product supply and, if not effectively managed and remedied, have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we use a single wholesaler of branded and generic pharmaceutical drugs as our primary source of such products for our retail pharmacy usa division. in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen announced various agreements and arrangements, including a ten-year pharmaceutical distribution agreement between walgreens and amerisourcebergen pursuant to which we source branded and generic pharmaceutical products from amerisourcebergen in the u.s. and an agreement which provides amerisourcebergen the ability to access generics pharmaceutical products through our global sourcing enterprise. in may 2016, certain of these agreements were extended for three years to now expire in 2026. in addition, in march 2013, walgreens, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen entered into agreements and arrangements pursuant to which we have the right, but not the obligation, to purchase a minority equity position in amerisourcebergen and gain associated representation on amerisourcebergen's board of directors in certain circumstances. as of the date of this report, amerisourcebergen distributes for our retail pharmacy usa division substantially all branded and generic pharmaceutical products. consequently, our business in the united states may be adversely affected by any operational, financial or regulatory difficulties that amerisourcebergen experiences. for example, if amerisourcebergen's operations are seriously disrupted for any reason, whether due to a natural disaster, labor disruption, regulatory action, computer or operational systems or otherwise, it could adversely affect our business in the united states and our results of operations. our distribution agreement with amerisourcebergen is subject to early termination in certain circumstances and, upon the expiration or termination of the agreement, there can be no assurance that we or amerisourcebergen will be willing to renew - 14 - table of contents the agreement or enter into a new agreement, on terms favorable to us or at all. if such expiration or termination occurred, we believe that alternative sources of supply for most generic and brand-name pharmaceuticals are readily available and that we could obtain and qualify alternative sources, which may include self-distribution in some cases, for substantially all of the prescription drugs we sell on an acceptable basis, such that the impact of any such expiration or termination would be temporary. however, there can be no assurance we would be able to engage alternative supply sources or implement self-distribution processes on a timely basis or on terms favorable to us, or effectively manage these transitions, any of which could adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. the anticipated strategic and financial benefits of our relationship with amerisourcebergen may not be realized. we entered into the arrangement with amerisourcebergen with the expectation that the transactions contemplated thereby would result in various benefits including, among other things, procurement cost savings and operating efficiencies, innovation and sharing of best practices. the processes and initiatives needed to achieve these potential benefits are complex, costly and time-consuming. achieving the anticipated benefits from the arrangement is subject to a number of significant challenges and uncertainties, including the possibility of faulty assumptions underlying expectations, processes or initiatives, or the inability to realize and/or delays in realizing potential benefits and synergies, whether unique corporate cultures of separate organizations will work collaboratively in an efficient and effective manner, unforeseen expenses or delays, and competitive factors in the marketplace. as of august 31, 2018, we beneficially owned approximately 26% of the outstanding amerisourcebergen common stock and had designated one member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors. in addition, we have the right, but not the obligation, under the transactions contemplated by the framework agreement dated as of march 18, 2013 by and among the company, alliance boots and amerisourcebergen (the framework agreement ) to acquire up to an additional 8,398,752 amerisourcebergen shares in the open market and thereafter designate another member of amerisourcebergen's board of directors, subject in each case to applicable legal and contractual requirements. there can be no assurance that we will complete any specific level of such potential equity investments in amerisourcebergen, or that our existing investment, or any future investment if completed, will ultimately be profitable. if the price of amerisourcebergen common stock subsequently declines substantially, we could experience a loss on or impairment of such investment, which could materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. further, our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities is subject to certain restrictions set forth in our agreements with amerisourcebergen and arising under applicable laws and regulations, which in some circumstances could adversely our ability to transact in amerisourcebergen securities in amounts and at the times desired. we could also encounter unforeseen costs, circumstances or issues existing or arising with respect to the transactions and collaboration resulting from these agreements. many of these potential circumstances are outside of our control and any of them could result in increased costs, decreased revenue, decreased synergies and the diversion of management time and attention. if we are unable to achieve our objectives within the anticipated time frame, or at all, the expected benefits may not be realized fully or at all, or may take longer to realize than expected, which could have a material adverse impact on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. from time to time, we make investments in companies over which we do not have sole control. some of these companies may operate in sectors that differ from our current operations and have different risks. from time to time, we make debt or equity investments in companies that we may not control or over which we may not have sole control. for example, while we have a significant equity investment in amerisourcebergen and have a designee serving on the board of directors of amerisourcebergen as of the date of this report, we do not have the ability to control day-to-day operations of that company. although the businesses in which we have made noncontrolling investments often have a significant health and daily living or prescription drug component, some of them operate in businesses that are different from our primary lines of business and/or operate in different geographic markets than we do. for example, in july 2018, we acquired a 40% minority stake in sinopharm holding guoda drugstores co., ltd., a leading retail pharmacy chain in china. investments in these businesses, among other risks, subject us to the operating and financial risks of the businesses we invest in and to the risk that we do not have sole control over the operations of these businesses. we rely on the internal controls and financial reporting controls of these entities and their failure to maintain effectiveness or comply with applicable standards may materially and adversely affect us. investments in entities over which we do not have sole control, including joint ventures and strategic alliances, present additional risks such as having differing objectives from our partners or the entities in which we are invested, becoming involved in disputes, or competing with those persons. from time to time, we may make additional investments in or acquire other entities that may subject us to similar risks. changes in economic conditions could adversely affect consumer buying practices. - 15 - table of contents our performance has been, and may continue to be, adversely impacted by changes in global, national, regional or local economic conditions and consumer confidence. these conditions can also adversely affect our key vendors and customers. external factors that affect consumer confidence and over which we exercise no influence include unemployment rates, inflation, levels of personal disposable income, levels of taxes and interest and global, national, regional or local economic conditions, as well as acts of war or terrorism. changes in economic conditions and consumer confidence could adversely affect consumer preferences, purchasing power and spending patterns, which could lead to a decrease in overall consumer spending as well as in prescription drug and health services utilization and which could be exacerbated by the increasing prevalence of high-deductible health insurance plans and related plan design changes. in addition, reduced or flat consumer spending may drive us and our competitors to offer additional products at promotional prices. all of these factors could materially and adversely impact our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. economic conditions in europe and certain emerging market countries, together with austerity measures being taken by certain governments, could adversely affect us. we have significant assets and operations within europe and certain emerging market countries in our retail pharmacy international and pharmaceutical wholesale divisions. an economic slowdown within any such markets could adversely affect our businesses in affected regions by reducing the prices our customers may be able or willing to pay for our products and services or by reducing the demand for our products and services, either of which could result in a material adverse impact on our results of operations. in recent years, in response to the economic environment, a number of governments, including the government in the united kingdom, have announced or implemented austerity measures to reduce healthcare spending for the government-sponsored healthcare systems and constrain overall government expenditures. these measures, which include efforts aimed at reforming healthcare coverage and reducing healthcare costs, continue to exert pressure on the pricing of and reimbursement timelines for pharmaceutical drugs. countries with existing austerity measures may impose additional laws, regulations, or requirements on the healthcare industry. in addition, governments that have not yet imposed austerity measures may impose them in the future. any new austerity measures may be similar to or vary in scope and nature from existing austerity measures and could have a material adverse effect on our international business operations and results of operations. if we do not successfully develop and maintain a relevant omni-channel experience for our customers, our businesses and results of operations could be adversely impacted. the portion of total consumer expenditures with retailers occurring online and through mobile applications has continued to increase and the pace of this increase could accelerate in the future. our business has evolved from an in-store experience to interaction with customers across numerous channels, including in-store, online, mobile and social media, among others. omni-channel retailing is rapidly evolving and we must keep pace with changing customer expectations and new developments by our competitors. our customers are increasingly using computers, tablets, mobile phones, and other devices to comparison shop, determine product availability and complete purchases, as well as to provide immediate public reactions regarding various facets of our operations. we must compete by offering a consistent and convenient shopping experience for our customers regardless of the ultimate sales channel and by investing in, providing and maintaining digital tools for our customers that have the right features and are reliable and easy to use. if we are unable to make, improve, or develop relevant customer-facing technology in a timely manner that keeps pace with technological developments and dynamic customer expectations, our ability to compete and our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. in addition, if our online activities or our other customer-facing technology systems do not function as designed, we may experience a loss of customer confidence, data security breaches, lost sales, or be exposed to fraudulent purchases, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, reputation and results of operations. if the merchandise and services that we offer fail to meet customer needs, our sales may be adversely affected. we could be adversely affected by changes in consumer spending levels and shopping habits and preferences, including attitudes towards our retail and product brands. the success of our retail pharmacy businesses depends on our ability to offer a superior shopping experience, engaging customer service and a quality assortment of available merchandise that differentiates us from other retailers, including enhanced health and beauty product offerings. we must identify, obtain supplies of, and offer to our customers attractive, innovative and high-quality merchandise on a continuous basis. our products and services must satisfy the needs and desires of our customers, whose preferences may change in the future. for example, our proof of concept initiatives that seek to position our stores in the united states as convenient community hubs for healthcare and retail products and services reflect the perceived desires and needs of our target market. however, it is difficult to predict consistently and successfully the products and services our customers will demand. if we misjudge either the demand for products and services we sell or our customers' purchasing habits and tastes, we may be faced with excess inventories of some products and missed opportunities for products and services we chose not to offer. in addition, our sales may decline or we may be required to sell the merchandise we have obtained at lower prices. failure to timely identify or effectively respond to changing consumer - 16 - table of contents tastes, preferences and spending patterns and evolving demographic mixes in the markets we serve could negatively affect our relationship with our customers and the demand for our products and services, which could materially and adversely impact our results of operations. our private brand offerings expose us to various additional risks. in addition to brand name products, we offer our customers private brand products that are not available from other retailers. we seek to continue to grow our exclusive private brand offerings as part of our growth strategy, including through the expanded offering of no7 and other brands owned or licensed on an exclusive basis, as well as through selective acquisitions. maintaining consistent product quality, competitive pricing, and availability of our private brand offerings for our customers, as well as the timely development and introduction of new products, is important in differentiating us from other retailers and developing and maintaining customer loyalty. although we believe that our private brand products offer value to our customers and typically provide us with higher gross margins than comparable national brand products we sell, the expansion of our private brand offerings also subjects us to additional risks, such as potential product liability risks and mandatory or voluntary product recalls; our ability to successfully protect our proprietary rights and successfully navigate and avoid claims related to the proprietary rights of third parties; our ability to successfully administer and comply with applicable contractual obligations and regulatory requirements; and other risks generally encountered by entities that source, sell and market exclusive branded offerings for retail. an increase in sales of our private brands may also adversely affect sales of our vendors' products, which, in turn, could adversely affect our relationship with certain of our vendors. any failure to adequately address some or all of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our reputation, business operations, results of operations and financial condition. we face significant competition in attracting and retaining talented employees. further, managing succession for, and retention of, key executives is critical to our success, and our failure to do so could have an adverse impact on our future performance. our ability to attract and retain qualified and experienced employees is essential to meet current and future goals and objectives and there is no guarantee we will be able to attract and retain such employees or that competition among potential employers will not result in increased salaries or other benefits. an inability to retain existing employees or attract additional employees, or an unexpected loss of leadership, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. in addition, our failure to adequately plan for succession of senior management and other key management roles or the failure of key employees to successfully transition into new roles could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. while we have succession plans in place and employment arrangements with certain key executives, these do not guarantee the services of these executives will continue to be available to us. we may experience a significant disruption in our computer systems. we rely extensively on our computer systems to manage our ordering, pricing, point-of-sale, pharmacy fulfillment, inventory replenishment, customer loyalty programs, finance and other processes. our systems are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, facility damage, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, security breaches including credit card or personally identifiable information breaches, vandalism, natural disasters, catastrophic events, human error and potential cyber threats, including malicious codes, worms, phishing attacks, denial of service attacks, ransomware and other sophisticated cyber attacks, and our disaster recovery planning cannot account for all eventualities. if any of our systems are damaged, fail to function properly or otherwise become unavailable, we may incur substantial costs to repair or replace them, and may experience loss or corruption of critical data and interruptions or disruptions and delays in our ability to perform critical functions, which could materially and adversely affect our businesses and results of operations. in addition, we are currently making, and expect to continue to make, substantial investments in our information technology systems and infrastructure, some of which are significant. upgrades involve replacing existing systems with successor systems, making changes to existing systems, or cost-effectively acquiring new systems with new functionality. implementing new systems carries significant potential risks, including failure to operate as designed, potential loss or corruption of data or information, cost overruns, implementation delays, disruption of operations, and the potential inability to meet business and reporting requirements. while we are aware of inherent risks associated with replacing these systems and believe we are taking reasonable action to mitigate known risks, there can be no assurance that we will not experience significant issues with our existing systems prior to implementation, that our technology initiatives will be successfully deployed as planned or that they will be timely implemented without significant disruption to our operations. we also could be adversely affected by any significant disruption in the systems of third parties we interact with, including key payers and vendors. - 17 - table of contents if we or the businesses we interact with do not maintain the privacy and security of sensitive customer and business information, it could damage our reputation and we could suffer a loss of revenue, incur substantial additional costs and become subject to litigation and regulatory scrutiny. the protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to our businesses. cybersecurity and other information technology security risks, such as a significant breach of customer, employee, or company data, could attract a substantial amount of media attention, damage our customer relationships and reputation, and result in lost sales, fines or lawsuits. throughout our operations, we receive, retain and transmit certain personal information that our customers and others provide to purchase products or services, fill prescriptions, enroll in promotional programs, participate in our customer loyalty programs, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. in addition, aspects of our operations depend upon the secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. like other global companies, we and businesses we interact with have experienced threats to data and systems, including by perpetrators of random or targeted malicious cyberattacks, computer viruses, worms, bot attacks or other destructive or disruptive software and attempts to misappropriate customer information, including credit card information, and cause system failures and disruptions. although we deploy a layered approach to address information security threats and vulnerabilities designed to protect confidential information against data security breaches, a compromise of our data security systems or of those of businesses with whom we interact, which results in confidential information being accessed, obtained, damaged or used by unauthorized or improper persons, could harm our reputation and expose us to regulatory actions, customer attrition, remediation expenses, and claims from customers, financial institutions, payment card associations and other persons, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and may not immediately produce signs of intrusion, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. in addition, a security breach could require that we expend substantial additional resources related to the security of information systems and disrupt our businesses. we depend on and interact with the information technology networks and systems of third-parties for many aspects of our business operations, including payers, strategic partners and cloud service providers. these third parties may have access to information we maintain about our company, operations, customers, employees and vendors, or operating systems that are critical to or can significantly impact our business operations. like us, these third-parties are subject to risks imposed by data breaches and cyber-attacks and other events or actions that could damage, disrupt or close down their networks or systems. security processes, protocols and standards that we have implemented and contractual provisions requiring security measures that we may have sought to impose on such third-parties may not be sufficient or effective at preventing such events, which could result in unauthorized access to, or disruptions or denials of access to, or misuse of, information or systems that are important to our business, including proprietary information, sensitive or confidential data, and other information about our operations, customers, employees and suppliers, including personal information. the regulatory environment surrounding data security and privacy is increasingly demanding, with the frequent imposition of new and changing requirements across businesses and geographic areas. we are required to comply with increasingly complex and changing data security and privacy regulations in the united states and in other jurisdictions in which we operate that regulate the collection, use and transfer of personal data, including the transfer of personal data between or among countries. in the united states, for example, hipaa imposes extensive privacy and security requirements governing the transmission, use and disclosure of health information by all participants in the health care industry. some foreign data privacy regulations are more stringent than those in the united states and continue to change. for example, the european union's general data protection regulation, which greatly increased the jurisdictional reach of european union data protection laws and added a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, and provides for greater penalties for noncompliance, became effective in may 2018. other countries have enacted or are considering enacting data localization laws that require certain data to stay within their borders. complying with changing regulatory requirements requires us to incur substantial costs and may require changes to our business practices in certain jurisdictions, any of which could materially and adversely affect our business operations and operating results. we may also face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign government agencies relating to our compliance with these regulations. compliance with changes in privacy and information security laws and standards may result in significant expense due to increased investment in technology and the development of new operational processes. if we or those with whom we share information fail to comply with these laws and regulations or experience a data security breach, our reputation could be damaged and we could be subject to additional litigation and regulatory risks. our security measures may be undermined due to the actions of outside parties, employee error, malfeasance, or otherwise, and, as a result, an unauthorized party may obtain access to our data systems and misappropriate business and personal information. any such breach or unauthorized access could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and potentially have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. - 18 - table of contents we are subject to payment-related risks that could increase our operating costs, expose us to fraud or theft, subject us to potential liability and potentially disrupt our business operations. we accept payments using a variety of methods, including cash, checks, credit and debit cards, gift cards and mobile payment technologies such as apple pay , and we may offer new payment options over time. acceptance of these payment options subjects us to rules, regulations, contractual obligations and compliance requirements, including payment network rules and operating guidelines, data security standards and certification requirements, and rules governing electronic funds transfers. these requirements and related interpretations may change over time, which could make compliance more difficult or costly. for certain payment methods, including credit and debit cards, we pay interchange and other fees, which could increase over time and raise our operating costs. we rely on third parties to provide payment processing services, including the processing of credit cards, debit cards, and other forms of electronic payment. if these companies become unable to provide these services to us, or if their systems are compromised, it could disrupt our business. the payment methods that we offer also subject us to potential fraud and theft by persons who seek to obtain unauthorized access to or exploit any weaknesses that may exist in the payment systems. if we fail to comply with applicable rules or requirements, or if data is compromised due to a breach or misuse of data relating to our payment systems, we may be liable for costs incurred by payment card issuing banks and other third parties or subject to fines and higher transaction fees, or our ability to accept or facilitate certain types of payments could be impaired. in addition, our reputation could suffer and our customers could lose confidence in certain payment types, which could result in higher costs and/or reduced sales and materially and adversely affect our results of operations. changes in healthcare regulatory environments may adversely affect our businesses. political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to significant changes that could adversely affect our results of operations. in recent years, the healthcare industry has undergone significant changes in an effort to reduce costs and government spending. these changes include an increased reliance on managed care; cuts in certain medicare and medicaid funding in the united states and the funding of governmental payers in foreign jurisdictions; consolidation of competitors, suppliers and other market participants; and the development of large, sophisticated purchasing groups. we expect the healthcare industry to continue to change significantly in the future. some of these potential changes, such as a reduction in governmental funding for certain healthcare services or adverse changes in legislation or regulations governing prescription drug pricing, healthcare services or mandated benefits, may cause customers to reduce the amount of our products and services they purchase or the price they are willing to pay for our products and services. we expect continued governmental and private payer pressure to reduce pharmaceutical pricing. changes in pharmaceutical manufacturers' pricing or distribution policies could also significantly reduce our profitability. in the united states, electoral results and changes in political leadership have generated uncertainty with respect to, and could result in, significant changes in legislation, regulation and government policy that could significantly impact our businesses and the health care and retail industries. there have been multiple attempts to repeal, modify or otherwise invalidate all, or certain provisions of, the aca, which was enacted in 2010 to provide health insurance coverage to millions of previously uninsured americans through a combination of insurance market reforms, an expansion of medicaid, subsidies and health insurance mandates. we cannot predict whether current or future efforts to modify these laws and/or adopt new healthcare legislation will be successful, nor can we predict the impact that such a development would have on our business and operating results. future legislation or rulemaking or other regulatory actions or developments under the aca or otherwise could adversely impact the number of americans with health insurance and, consequently, prescription drug coverage, increase regulation of pharmacy services, result in changes to pharmacy reimbursement rates, and otherwise change the way we do business. we cannot predict the timing or impact of any future legislative, rulemaking or other regulatory actions, but any such actions could have a material adverse impact on our results of operations. a significant change in, or noncompliance with, governmental regulations and other legal requirements could have a material adverse effect on our reputation and profitability. we operate in complex, highly regulated environments around the world and could be materially and adversely affected by changes to applicable legal requirements including the related interpretations and enforcement practices, new legal requirements and/or any failure to comply with applicable regulations. businesses in our pharmaceutical wholesale division are subject to a range of regulations relating to such things as product margins, product traceability and the conditions under which products must be stored. our retail pharmacy and health and wellness services businesses are subject to numerous country, state and local regulations including licensing and other requirements for pharmacies and reimbursement arrangements. the regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: country and state registration and regulation of pharmacies and drug discount card programs; dispensing and sale of controlled substances and products containing pseudoephedrine; applicable governmental payer regulations including medicare and medicaid; data privacy and security laws and regulations including hipaa; the aca or any successor thereto; laws and regulations relating to the - 19 - table of contents protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; regulations regarding food and drug safety including those of the u.s. food and drug administration ( fda ) and drug enforcement administration ( dea ), trade regulations including those of the u.s. federal trade commission, and consumer protection and safety regulations including those of the consumer product safety commission, as well as state regulatory authorities, governing the availability, sale, advertisement and promotion of products we sell as well as our loyalty and drug discount card programs; anti-kickback laws; false claims laws; laws against the corporate practice of medicine; and foreign, national and state laws governing health care fraud and abuse and the practice of the profession of pharmacy. for example, in the united states the dea, fda and various other regulatory authorities regulate the distribution and dispensing of pharmaceuticals and controlled substances. we are required to hold valid dea and state-level licenses, meet various security and operating standards and comply with the federal and various state controlled substance acts and related regulations governing the sale, dispensing, disposal, holding and distribution of controlled substances. the dea, fda and state regulatory authorities have broad enforcement powers, including the ability to seize or recall products and impose significant criminal, civil and administrative sanctions for violations of these laws and regulations. we are also governed by foreign, national and state laws of general applicability, including laws regulating matters of working conditions, health and safety and equal employment opportunity and other labor and employment matters as well as employee benefit, competition and antitrust matters. in addition, we could have significant exposure if we are found to have infringed another party's intellectual property rights. changes in laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may alter the landscape in which we do business and may significantly affect our cost of doing business. the impact of new laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices generally cannot be predicted, and changes in applicable laws, regulations and policies and the related interpretations and enforcement practices may require extensive system and operational changes, be difficult to implement, increase our operating costs and require significant capital expenditures. untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could result in the imposition of civil and criminal penalties that could adversely affect the continued operation of our businesses, including: suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications; loss of authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government programs, including the medicare and medicaid programs in the united states and the national health service in the united kingdom; loss of licenses; and significant fines or monetary penalties. any failure to comply with applicable regulatory requirements in the united states or in any of the countries in which we operate could result in significant legal and financial exposure, damage our reputation, and have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely affected by product liability, product recall, personal injury or other health and safety issues. we could be adversely impacted by the supply of defective or expired products, including the infiltration of counterfeit products into the supply chain, errors in re-labeling of products, product tampering, product recall and contamination or product mishandling issues. through our pharmacies and specialist packaging sites, we are also exposed to risks relating to the services we provide. errors in the dispensing and packaging of pharmaceuticals, including related counseling, and in the provision of other healthcare services could lead to serious injury or death. product liability or personal injury claims may be asserted against us with respect to any of the products or pharmaceuticals we sell or services we provide. our healthcare clinics also increase our exposure to professional liability claims related to medical care. should a product or other liability issue arise, the coverage limits under our insurance programs and the indemnification amounts available to us may not be adequate to protect us against claims and judgments. we also may not be able to maintain this insurance on acceptable terms in the future. we could suffer significant reputational damage and financial liability if we, or any affiliated entities, experience any of the foregoing health and safety issues or incidents, which could have a material adverse effect on our business operations, financial condition and results of operations. we have significant outstanding debt; our debt and associated payment obligations could significantly increase in the future if we incur additional debt and do not retire existing debt. we have outstanding debt and other financial obligations and significant unused borrowing capacity. as of august 31, 2018, we had approximately $14 billion of outstanding indebtedness, including short-term debt. our debt level and related debt service obligations could have negative consequences, including: requiring us to dedicate significant cash flow from operations to the payment of principal, interest and other amounts payable on our debt, which would reduce the funds we have available for other purposes, such as working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and dividends; - 20 - table of contents making it more difficult or expensive for us to obtain any necessary future financing for working capital, capital expenditures, debt service requirements, debt refinancing, acquisitions or other purposes; reducing our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our industry and market conditions; making us more vulnerable in the event of a downturn in our business operations; and exposing us to interest rate risk given that a portion of our debt obligations is at variable interest rates. we may incur or assume significantly more debt in the future, including in connection with acquisitions, strategic investments or joint ventures. if we add new debt and do not retire existing debt, the risks described above could increase. we also could be adversely impacted by any failure to renew or replace, on terms acceptable to us or at all, existing funding arrangements when they expire, and any failure to satisfy applicable covenants. our long-term debt obligations include covenants that may adversely affect our ability, and the ability of certain of our subsidiaries, to incur certain secured indebtedness or engage in certain types of transactions. in addition, our existing credit agreements require us to maintain as of the last day of each fiscal quarter a ratio of consolidated debt to total capitalization not to exceed a certain level. our ability to comply with these restrictions and covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. if we breach any of these restrictions or covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, our outstanding indebtedness could be declared immediately due and payable. this could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial condition. we could be adversely affected by downgrades to our credit ratings or disruptions in our ability to access well-functioning capital markets. historically, we have relied on the public debt capital markets to fund portions of our capital investments and access to the commercial paper market and bank credit facilities as part of our working capital management strategy. our continued access to these markets, and the terms of such access, depend on multiple factors including the condition of debt capital markets, our operating performance, and our credit ratings. the major credit rating agencies have assigned us and our corporate debt investment grade credit ratings. these ratings are based on a number of factors, which include their assessment of our financial strength and financial policies. we benefit from investment grade ratings as they serve to lower our borrowing costs and facilitate our access to a variety of lenders and other creditors, including landlords for our leased stores, on terms that we consider advantageous to our businesses. however, there can be no assurance that any particular rating assigned to us will remain in effect for any given period of time or that a rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency, if in that rating agency's judgment, future circumstances relating to the basis of the rating so warrant. incurrence of additional debt by us could adversely affect our credit ratings. we depend on banks and other financial institutions to provide credit to our business and perform under our agreements with them. defaults by one or more of these counterparties on their obligations to us could materially and adversely affect us. any disruptions or turmoil in the capital markets or any downgrade of our credit ratings could adversely affect our cost of funds, liquidity, competitive position and access to capital markets and increase the cost of and counterparty risks associated with existing facilities, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we may be unable to keep existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places on favorable terms, which could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. we compete with other retailers and businesses for suitable locations for our stores. local land use and zoning regulations, environmental regulations and other regulatory requirements may impact our ability to find suitable locations and influence the cost of constructing, renovating and operating our stores. in addition, real estate, zoning, construction and other delays may adversely affect store openings and renovations and increase our costs. further, changing local demographics at existing store locations may adversely affect revenue and profitability levels at those stores. the termination or expiration of leases at existing store locations may adversely affect us if the renewal terms of those leases are unacceptable to us and we are forced to close or relocate stores. if we determine to close or relocate a store subject to a lease, we may remain obligated under the applicable lease for the balance of the lease term. if we are unable to maintain our existing store locations or open new locations in desirable places and on favorable terms, our results of operations could be materially and adversely affected. as a holding company, walgreens boots alliance is dependent on funding from its operating subsidiaries to pay dividends and other obligations. - 21 - table of contents walgreens boots alliance is a holding company with no business operations of its own. its assets primarily consist of direct and indirect ownership interests in, and its business is conducted through, subsidiaries which are separate legal entities. as a result, it is dependent on funding from its subsidiaries, including walgreens and alliance boots, to meet its obligations. additionally, walgreens boots alliance's subsidiaries may be restricted in their ability to pay cash dividends or to make other distributions to walgreens boots alliance, which may limit the payment of cash dividends or other distributions to the holders of walgreens boots alliance common stock. credit facilities and other debt obligations of walgreens boots alliance, as well as statutory provisions, may further limit the ability of walgreens boots alliance and its subsidiaries to pay dividends. payments to walgreens boots alliance by its subsidiaries are also contingent upon its subsidiaries' earnings and business considerations. future walgreens boots alliance dividends will be determined based on earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by its board of directors. our quarterly results may fluctuate significantly. our operating results have historically varied on a quarterly basis and may continue to fluctuate significantly in the future. factors that may affect our quarterly operating results, some of which are beyond the control of management, include, but are not limited to the timing of the introduction of new generic and brand name prescription drugs; inflation, including with respect to generic drug procurement costs; the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season; changes in payer reimbursement rates and terms; fluctuations in inventory, energy, transportation, labor, healthcare and other costs; significant acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures and other strategic initiatives; asset impairment charges; the relative magnitude of our lifo provision in any particular quarter; foreign currency fluctuations; seasonality; prolonged severe weather in key markets; and many of the other risk factors discussed herein. accordingly, we believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our operating results are not necessarily meaningful and investors should not rely on the results of any particular quarter as an indication of our future performance. our businesses are seasonal in nature, and adverse events during the holiday and cough, cold and flu seasons could adversely impact our operating results. our businesses are seasonal in nature, with the second fiscal quarter (december, january and february) typically generating a higher proportion of retail sales and earnings than other fiscal quarters. we purchase significant amounts of seasonal inventory in anticipation of the holiday season. adverse events, such as deteriorating economic conditions, higher unemployment, higher gas prices, public transportation disruptions, or unanticipated adverse weather, could result in lower-than-planned sales during key selling seasons. for example, frequent or unusually heavy snowfall, ice storms, rainstorms, windstorms or other extreme weather conditions over a prolonged period could make it difficult for our customers to travel to our stores and increase our snow removal and other costs. this could lead to lower sales or to unanticipated markdowns, negatively impacting our financial condition and results of operations. in addition, both prescription and non-prescription drug sales are affected by the timing and severity of the cough, cold and flu season, which can vary considerably from year to year. we could be adversely impacted by changes in accounting standards and subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments by management related to complex accounting matters. generally accepted accounting principles ( gaap ) and related accounting pronouncements, implementation guidelines and interpretations with regard to a wide range of matters that are relevant to our businesses, including, but not limited to, revenue recognition, asset impairment, impairment of goodwill and other intangible assets, inventories, equity method investments, vendor rebates and other vendor consideration, lease obligations, self-insurance liabilities, pension and postretirement benefits, tax matters, unclaimed property laws and litigation and other contingent liabilities are highly complex and involve many subjective assumptions, estimates and judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation or changes in underlying assumptions, estimates or judgments could significantly change our reported or expected financial performance or financial condition. for example, changes in accounting standards and the application of existing accounting standards particularly related to the measurement of fair value as compared to carrying value for the company's reporting units, including goodwill, intangible assets and investments in equity interests, including investments held by our equity method investees, may have an adverse effect on the company's financial condition and results of operations. factors that could lead to impairment of goodwill and intangible assets include significant adverse changes in the business climate and declines in the financial condition of a reporting unit. factors that could lead to impairment of investments in equity interests of the companies in which we invested or the investments held by those companies include a prolonged period of decline in their operating performance or adverse changes in the economic, regulatory and legal environments of the countries in which they operate in. new accounting guidance also may require changes to our processes, accounting systems and internal controls that could increase our operating costs and/or significantly change our financial statements. for example, in february 2016, the financial accounting standards board ( fasb ) issued accounting standards update ( asu ) 2016-02, leases (topic 842), which - 22 - table of contents supersedes topic 840, leases. this asu, which is effective for annual periods beginning after december 15, 2018 (fiscal 2020), seeks to increase the transparency and comparability of organizations by recognizing operating lease assets and operating lease liabilities on the balance sheet and disclosing key information about leasing arrangements. see, new accounting pronouncements, within note 1 , summary of major accounting policies , to the consolidated financial statements. implementing this asu, as well as other new accounting guidance may require us to make significant upgrades to and investments in our lease administration systems and other accounting systems, and could result in significant adverse changes to our financial statements. we have a substantial amount of goodwill and other intangible assets which could, in the future, become impaired and result in material non-cash charges to our results of operations. as of august 31, 2018, we had $28.7 billion of goodwill and other intangible assets on the consolidated balance sheets. we evaluate this goodwill and other indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment annually during the fourth quarter, or more frequently if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. as part of this impairment analysis, we determine fair value for each reporting unit using both the income and market approaches. definite-lived intangible assets are evaluated for impairment if an event occurs or circumstances change that indicate the carrying amount may not be recoverable. estimated fair values could change if, for example, there are changes in the business climate, changes in the competitive environment, adverse legal or regulatory actions or developments, changes in capital structure, cost of debt, interest rates, capital expenditure levels, operating cash flows, or market capitalization. because of the significance of our goodwill and intangible assets, any future impairment of these assets could require material non-cash charges to our results of operations, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. we are exposed to risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings. we operate in a highly regulated and litigious environment. we are involved in legal proceedings, including litigation, arbitration and other claims, and investigations, inspections, audits, claims, inquiries and similar actions by pharmacy, healthcare, tax and other governmental authorities, including those contained in note 10 , commitments and contingencies , to the consolidated financial statements included in part ii, item 8 of this form 10-k. legal proceedings, in general, and securities, class action and multi-district litigation, in particular, can be expensive and disruptive. some of these suits may purport or may be determined to be class actions and/or involve parties seeking large and/or indeterminate amounts, including punitive or exemplary damages, and may remain unresolved for several years. in addition, under the qui tam or whistleblower provisions of the federal and various state false claims acts, persons may bring lawsuits alleging that a violation of the federal anti-kickback statute or similar laws has resulted in the submission of false claims to federal and/or state healthcare programs, including medicare and medicaid. after a private party has filed a qui tam action, the government must investigate the private party's claim and determine whether to intervene in and take control over the litigation. these actions may remain under seal while the government makes this determination. from time to time, the company is also involved in legal proceedings as a plaintiff involving antitrust, tax, contract, intellectual property and other matters. we cannot predict with certainty the outcomes of these legal proceedings and other contingencies, and the costs incurred in litigation can be substantial, regardless of the outcome. substantial unanticipated verdicts, fines and rulings do sometimes occur. as a result, we could from time to time incur judgments, enter into settlements or revise our expectations regarding the outcome of certain matters, and such developments could harm our reputation and have a material adverse effect on our results of operations in the period in which the amounts are accrued and/or our cash flows in the period in which the amounts are paid. the outcome of some of these legal proceedings and other contingencies could require us to take, or refrain from taking, actions which could negatively affect our operations. additionally, defending against these lawsuits and proceedings may involve significant expense and diversion of management's attention and resources. we could be adversely affected by violations of anti-bribery, anti-corruption and/or international trade laws. we are subject to laws concerning our business operations and marketing activities in foreign countries where we conduct business. for example, we are subject to the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (the fcpa ), u.s. export control, anti-money laundering and trade sanction laws, and similar anti-corruption and international trade laws in certain foreign countries, such as the u.k. bribery act, any violation of which could create substantial liability for us and also harm our reputation. the fcpa generally prohibits u.s. companies and their officers, directors, employees, and intermediaries from making improper payments to foreign officials for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business abroad or otherwise obtaining favorable treatment. the fcpa also requires that u.s. public companies maintain books and records that fairly and accurately reflect transactions and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. if we are found to have violated the fcpa, or any other anti-bribery, anti-corruption or international trade laws, we may face sanctions including civil and criminal fines, disgorgement of profits, and suspension or debarment of our ability to contract with governmental agencies or receive export - 23 - table of contents licenses. in addition, new initiatives may be proposed from time to time that impact the trading conditions in certain countries or regions, and may include retaliatory duties or trade sanctions which, if enacted, could adversely impact our trading relationships with vendors or other parties in such locations and have a material adverse effect on our operations. from time to time, we may face audits or investigations by one or more domestic or foreign governmental agencies relating to our international business activities, compliance with which could be costly and time-consuming, and could divert our management and key personnel from our business operations. an adverse outcome under any such investigation or audit could damage our reputation and subject us to fines or other penalties, which could materially and adversely affect our business operations, financial condition, and results of operations. we could be subject to adverse changes in tax laws, regulations and interpretations or challenges to our tax positions. we are a large corporation with operations in the u.s. and numerous other jurisdictions around the world. as such, we are subject to tax laws and regulations of the u.s. federal, state and local governments as well as various foreign jurisdictions. we compute our income tax provision based on enacted tax rates in the jurisdictions in which we operate. as the tax rates vary among jurisdictions, a change in earnings attributable to the various jurisdictions in which we operate could result in an unfavorable change in our overall tax provision. from time to time, changes in tax laws or regulations may be proposed or enacted that could adversely affect our overall tax liability. for example, the u.s. tax legislation enacted on december 22, 2017 represents a significant overhaul of the u.s. federal tax code. this tax legislation significantly reduced the u.s. statutory corporate tax rate and made other changes that could have a favorable impact on our overall u.s. federal tax liability in a given period. however, the tax legislation also included a number of provisions, including, but not limited to, the limitation or elimination of various deductions or credits (including for interest expense and for performance-based compensation under section 162(m)), the imposition of taxes on certain cross-border payments or transfers, the changing of the timing of the recognition of certain income and deductions or their character, and the limitation of asset basis under certain circumstances, that could significantly and adversely affect our u.s. federal income tax position. the legislation also made significant changes to the tax rules applicable to insurance companies and other entities with which we do business. we are continuing to evaluate the overall impact of this tax legislation on our operations and u.s. federal income tax position. there can be no assurance that changes in tax laws or regulations, both within the u.s. and the other jurisdictions in which we operate, will not materially and adversely affect our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. similarly, changes in tax laws and regulations that impact our customers and counterparties or the economy generally may also impact our financial condition and results of operations. tax laws and regulations are complex and subject to varying interpretations, and we are subject to regular review and audit by both domestic and foreign tax authorities. any adverse outcome of such a review or audit could have a negative impact on our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. in addition, the determination of our income tax provision and other tax liabilities requires significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax determination may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our results of operations in the period or periods for which such determination is made. any significant failure to comply with applicable tax laws and regulations in all relevant jurisdictions could give rise to substantial penalties and liabilities. any changes in enacted tax laws (such as the recent u.s. tax legislation), rules or regulatory or judicial interpretations; or any change in the pronouncements relating to accounting for income taxes could materially and adversely impact our effective tax rate, tax payments, financial condition and results of operations. our insurance strategies may expose us to unexpected costs. we use a combination of insurance and self-insurance to provide for potential liability for workers' compensation; automobile and general liability; property, director and officers' liability; and employee healthcare benefits. provisions for losses related to self-insured risks generally are based upon actuarially determined estimates. any actuarial projection of losses is subject to a high degree of variability. substantial, unanticipated losses or liabilities, including those due to natural disasters or otherwise, as well as changes in legal claims, trends and interpretations, variability in inflation rates, changes in the nature and method of claims settlement, benefit level changes due to changes in applicable laws, insolvency of insurance carriers, and changes in discount rates could all materially and adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. we could be adversely impacted by changes in assumptions used in calculating pension assets and liabilities. we operate certain defined benefit pension plans in the united kingdom, which were closed to new entrants in 2010, as well as smaller plans in other jurisdictions. the valuation of the pension plan's assets and liabilities depends in part on assumptions, which are primarily based on the financial markets as well as longevity and employee retention rates. this valuation is - 24 - table of contents particularly sensitive to material changes in the value of equity, bond and other investments held by the pension plans, changes in the corporate bond yields which are used in the measurement of the liabilities, changes in market expectations for long-term price inflation, and new evidence on projected longevity rates. funding requirements and the impact on the statement of earnings relating to these pension plans are also influenced by these factors. adverse changes in the assumptions used to calculate the value of pension assets and liabilities, including lower than expected pension fund investment returns and/or increased life expectancy of plan participants, or regulatory change could require us to increase the funding of its defined benefit pension plans or incur higher expenses, which would adversely impact our results of operations and financial position. certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval. as of september 30, 2018, affiliates of stefano pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer (the sp investors ), had sole or shared voting power, directly or indirectly, over an aggregate of approximately 15.3% of our outstanding common stock. the sp investors have agreed to, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee for election to the board, to vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of the company's stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). the sp investors' significant interest in our common stock potentially could determine the outcome of matters submitted to a vote by our stockholders. the influence of the sp investors could result in the company taking actions that other stockholders do not support or failing to take actions that other stockholders support. as a result, the market price of our common stock could be adversely affected. shares issued to former alliance boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots are eligible for future sale. the shares issued to the sp investors and certain other former alliance boots stockholders in connection with our strategic combination with alliance boots generally may now be sold pursuant to rule 144 under the securities act of 1933, as amended (the securities act ), subject to restrictions in the case of shares held by persons deemed to be our affiliates and to certain obligations pursuant to a shareholders agreement (as amended, the company shareholders agreement ) with certain of the sp investors. in addition, the company shareholders agreement also contains registration rights that would obligate us, in certain instances, to file future registration statements under the securities act covering resales of shares issued to former alliance boots stockholders or to permit a piggyback on a future registration statement. a sale, or the perception that a sale may occur, of a substantial number of shares of our common stock could adversely impact the market price of our common stock. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, may arise because certain of our directors and officers are also owners or directors of companies we may have dealings with. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, could arise between our interests and the interests of the other entities and business activities in which our directors or officers are involved. for example, potential conflicts of interest could arise if a dispute were to arise between the company and other parties to the company shareholders agreement, including the sp investors. mr. pessina, our executive vice chairman and chief executive officer, indirectly controls alliance sant participations s.a. ( asp ), a privately-held company which is a party to the company shareholders agreement, and he and his partner ornella barra, our co-chief operating officer, serve as directors of asp. there are other arrangements between affiliates of mr. pessina and the company, with required disclosures included in the company's annual proxy statement. conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, or similar issues could arise in connection with these or other transactions in the future. while our contractual arrangements place restrictions on the parties' conduct in certain situations, and related party transactions are subject to independent review and approval in accordance with our related party transaction approval procedures and applicable law, the potential for a conflict of interest exists and such persons may have conflicts of interest, or the appearance of conflicts of interest, with respect to matters involving or affecting both companies. our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, delaware law and/or our agreements with certain stockholders may impede the ability of our stockholders to make changes to our board or impede a takeover. certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws, as well as provisions of the delaware general corporation law (the dgcl ), could make it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discourage, delay, or prevent a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. these provisions include the authorization of the issuance of blank check preferred stock that could be issued by the board, limitations on the ability of stockholders to call special meetings, and advance notice requirements for nomination for election to the board or for proposing matters that can be acted upon by stockholders at stockholder meetings. we are also subject to the provisions of section 203 of the dgcl, which prohibits us, except under specified circumstances, from engaging in any mergers, significant - 25 - table of contents sales of stock or assets, or business combinations with any stockholder or group of stockholders who own 15% or more of our common stock. under the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors are entitled to designate one nominee to the board (currently stefano pessina) for so long as the sp investors continue to meet certain beneficial ownership thresholds and subject to certain other conditions. pursuant to the company shareholders agreement, the sp investors have agreed that, for so long as they have the right to designate a nominee to the board, they will vote all of their shares of common stock in accordance with the board's recommendation on matters submitted to a vote of our stockholders (including with respect to the election of directors). while these provisions do not make us immune from takeovers or changes in the composition of the board, and are intended to protect our stockholders from, among other things, coercive or otherwise unfair tactics, these provisions could have the effect of making it difficult for stockholders to change the composition of the board or discouraging, delaying, or preventing a merger, consolidation, or acquisitions that stockholders may otherwise consider favorable. see also the risk factor captioned certain stockholders may have significant voting influence over matters requiring stockholder approval above. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. in june 2018, our board of directors approved a new stock repurchase program authorizing the repurchase of up to $10 billion of our common stock. the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares, on any particular timetable or at all. there can be no assurance that we will repurchase stock at favorable prices. the repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. the market price of our common stock may be volatile. the market price of shares of our common stock may be volatile. broad general economic, political, market and industry factors may adversely affect the market price of the shares, regardless of our actual operating performance. in addition to the other risk factors identified in this item 1a, factors that could cause fluctuations in the price of the shares include: actual or anticipated variations in quarterly operating results and the results of competitors; changes in financial estimates by us or by any securities analysts that might cover us; conditions or trends in the industry, including regulatory changes or changes in the securities marketplace; announcements by us or our competitors of significant acquisitions, strategic partnerships or divestitures; announcements of investigations or regulatory scrutiny of our operations or lawsuits filed against us; additions or departures of key personnel; issuances or sales of our common stock, including sales of shares by our directors and officers or key investors, including the sp investors; and various other market factors or perceived market factors, including rumors or speculation, whether or not correct, involving or affecting us or our industries, vendors, customers, strategic partners or competitors. there are a number of additional business risks that could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results. many other factors could materially and adversely affect our businesses and financial results, including: if we are unsuccessful in establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our sales or sales margins could be negatively affected. our operating costs may be subject to increases outside the control of our businesses, whether due to inflation, new or increased taxes, adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, changes in market conditions or otherwise. - 26 - table of contents our success depends on our ability to attract, engage and retain store, professional and management personnel, including in executive and other key strategic positions, and the loss of key personnel could have an adverse effect on the results of our operations, financial condition or cash flow. natural disasters, civil unrest, severe weather conditions, terrorist activities, global political and economic developments, war, health epidemics or pandemics or the prospect of these events can interrupt or otherwise adversely impact our operations or damage our facilities or those of our strategic partners, vendors and customers and have an adverse impact on consumer confidence levels and spending on our products and services. if we or our affiliates were to incur significant liabilities or expense relating to the protection of the environment, related health and safety matters, environmental remediation or compliance with environmental laws and regulations, including those governing exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances, it could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. the long-term effects of climate change on general economic conditions and the pharmacy industry in particular are unclear, and changes in the supply, demand or available sources of energy and the regulatory and other costs associated with energy production and delivery may affect the availability or cost of goods and services, including natural resources, necessary to run our businesses. we are at risk of adverse publicity and potential losses, liabilities and reputational harm stemming from any public incident (whether occurring online, in social media, in our stores or other company facilities, or elsewhere) involving our company, our personnel or our brands, including any such public incident involving our customers, products, services, stores or other property, or those of any of our vendors or other parties with which we do business. if negative publicity, even if unwarranted, related to safety or quality, human and workplace rights, or other issues damage our brand image and corporate reputation, or that of any of our vendors or strategic allies, our businesses and results of operations may suffer. quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk 57 quantitative and qualitative disclosure about market risk interest rate risk the company is exposed to interest rate volatility with regard to existing debt issuances. primary exposures include libor and commercial paper rates. from time to time, the company uses interest rate swaps and forward-starting interest rate swaps to hedge its exposure to the impact of interest rate changes on existing debt and future debt issuances respectively, to reduce the volatility of financing costs and, based on current and projected market conditions, achieve a desired proportion of fixed versus floating-rate debt. generally under these swaps, the company agrees with a counterparty to exchange the difference between fixed-rate and floating-rate interest amounts based on an agreed upon notional principal amount. information regarding our transactions are set forth in note 8 , financial instruments , to the consolidated financial statements. these financial instruments are sensitive to changes in interest rates. on august 31, 2018 , the company had no material long-term debt obligations that had floating interest rates. the amounts exclude the impact of any associated derivative contracts. foreign currency exchange rate risk the company is exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, primarily with respect to the british pound sterling and euro, and certain other foreign currencies, which may affect its net investment in foreign subsidiaries and may cause fluctuations in cash flows related to foreign denominated transactions. the company is also exposed to the translation of foreign currency earnings to the u.s. dollar. the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts to hedge against the effect of exchange rate fluctuations on non-functional currency cash flows. these transactions are almost exclusively less than 12 months in maturity. in addition, the company enters into foreign currency forward contracts that are not designated in hedging relationships to offset, in part, the impacts of certain intercompany activities (primarily associated with intercompany financing transactions). the company's foreign currency derivative instruments are sensitive to changes in exchange rates. a hypothetical 1% change in foreign currency exchange rates versus the u.s. dollar would change the fair value of the foreign currency derivative held as of august 31, 2018 , by approximately $21 million. the foreign currency derivatives are intended to partially hedge anticipated transactions, foreign currency trade payables and receivables and net investments in foreign subsidiaries. equity price risk changes in amerisourcebergen common stock price may have a significant impact on the fair value of the equity investment in amerisourcebergen described in note 5 , equity method investments , to the consolidated financial statements. see -- amerisourcebergen corporation relationship above. - 57 - table of contents