risk factors 14 risk factors. when used in this report, the words expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after the date of this document. you should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, including the quarterly reports on form 10-q to be filed by us in our 2010 fiscal year, which runs from june 1, 2009 to may 31, 2010. part i item 1. business general we are the world largest enterprise software company. we develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated software solutions that improve transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organization unique needs and allow better ways to access and manage information and automate business processes at a lower total cost of ownership. we seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets. we believe our internal, or organic, growth and continued innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and applications technologies provide the foundation for our long-term strategic plan. in fiscal 2009, we invested $2.8 billion in research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products, features and services. an active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies. we believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. we expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. on april 19, 2009, we entered into an agreement and plan of merger with sun microsystems, inc. (sun), a provider of enterprise computing systems, software and services, under which we have agreed to acquire all outstanding shares of sun for $9.50 per share in cash. the estimated total purchase price for sun is approximately $7.4 billion. the transaction is subject to sun stockholder approval, regulatory clearances and other customary closing conditions. oracle corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in june 1977. software and services we are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) on demand and (3) education. our software and services businesses represented 81% and 19% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2009, 80% and 20% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2008 and 79% and 21% of our 1 table of contents total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. see note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information related to our operating segments. software business new software licenses the new software licenses operating segment of our software business includes the licensing of database and middleware software, which consists of oracle databases and oracle fusion middleware, as well as applications software. our technology and business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of interconnected databases, application servers, as well as mobile devices. this architecture enables users to access business data and applications through a web browser interface, and is designed to provide customers with the most efficient and cost effective method of managing business information and applications. in an internet model, database servers manage and protect a customer underlying business information, while application servers run the business applications that automate a myriad of business functions. our architecture provides high quality business information and can be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. oracle technology operates on both single server and clustered server configurations, which we refer to as grid software, and supports a choice of operating systems including linux, windows and unix. our applications software is designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their it infrastructures by delivering industry solutions via an open, integrated and standards-based architecture that supports customer choice and reduces customer risk by automating business functions. new software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software license updates and product support. the standard end user software license agreement for our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other metrics. we also have other types of software license agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license term. new software license revenues represented 31%, 34% and 33% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. database and middleware software our database and middleware software offerings provide a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for mid-size businesses and large global enterprises. with an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing their total cost of it infrastructure, our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments, using low cost server, storage and application grids that can incrementally scale as required. the ability to assign computing resources as required simplifies our customers it capacity, planning and procurement to support all of their business applications. with an oracle grid infrastructure, our customers can lower their investment in servers and storage, reduce their risk of data loss and it infrastructure downtime and efficiently utilize available it resources to meet business users quality of service expectations. new software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 72%, 68% and 71% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. databases as the world most popular database, oracle database enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data, including business application and analytics data, and unstructured data in the form of xml files, office documents, images, video and spatial data. designed for enterprise grid computing, the oracle database is available in four editions: express edition, standard edition one, standard edition and enterprise edition. all editions are built using the same underlying code, which means that our database software can easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor servers. 2 table of contents a number of optional offerings are available with oracle database enterprise edition to address specific customer requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high availability, data security and compliance, data warehousing, information management and systems management. examples of these options include: oracle real application clusters, which enables any oracle database application to share more efficiently the processing power and memory capacity of a fault tolerant cluster of servers; oracle advanced compression, which enables customers to reduce the amount of disk space required to store all their business information and improve query performance; oracle partitioning, which breaks down large database tables into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier management of data throughout its lifecycle; and oracle in-memory database cache, which improves application performance by caching or storing critical parts of oracle database in the main memory of the application tier. in addition to the four editions of oracle database, we also offer a selection of specialized databases: oracle timesten in-memory database, which is a memory-optimized relational database that delivers low latency and high throughput for applications requiring real-time performance in industries such as communications, financial services and defense; oracle berkeley db, which is a family of open source, embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within their applications and devices; and oracle database lite, which is a comprehensive solution for developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and embedded environments. it consists of a small footprint relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices and oracle database, and mobile application development tools. we also offer a selection of products that are complementary to our database offerings. these include oracle exadata, oracle enterprise manager and oracle audit vault. oracle exadata oracle exadata is a family of high performance storage software and hardware products that is designed to improve data warehouse query performance. built using smart storage software from oracle and industry-standard hardware from hewlett-packard company (hp), it uses a parallel architecture to increase data bandwidth between database servers and storage. in addition, it enables query processing closer to the data, resulting in faster query processing and less data movement through high bandwidth connections. the oracle exadata storage server is based on hp servers with oracle exadata software pre-installed. it is designed to be an industry-standard storage server, which offers linear scalability and mission-critical reliability, in addition to fast query processing. oracle exadata storage servers are also the building block for the oracle database machine that is designed for large, multi-terabyte data warehouses. the oracle database machine packages together software, servers, and storage that can scale to support data warehouses and business intelligence applications. oracle enterprise manager oracle enterprise manager is designed to deliver top-down applications and software infrastructure management. our customers use oracle enterprise manager to monitor and manage their applications and underlying software infrastructure, including both oracle and non-oracle infrastructure products. oracle enterprise manager can be used to manage packaged applications, such as our siebel, peoplesoft, oracle e-business suite or custom applications including service-oriented architecture applications. in addition to managing oracle software infrastructure products including the oracle database, oracle fusion middleware and oracle weblogic server, oracle enterprise manager also supports other third-party infrastructure products. oracle enterprise manager is designed to monitor service levels and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration information, and provide change management in a unified way across groups of computers or grids. 3 table of contents oracle enterprise manager provisioning automates the discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and allows it administrators to apply patches without taking their system down. additionally, it administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an html browser or through wireless mobile devices. oracle audit vault oracle audit vault is designed to reduce the cost and complexity of compliance reporting and detection of unauthorized activities by automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise audit data. oracle database provides one of the most advanced auditing capabilities of any database management system. with oracle audit vault, security and database administrators can manage audit policies across their enterprise and automatically collect audit data from oracle and non-oracle databases into a centralized, tamper resistant repository. this secure repository is built on oracle scalable architecture to allow retention and aggregation of terabytes of audit data for analysis and reporting. audit vault analyzes audit data in real-time based upon enterprise defined policies, issues alerts for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in reports for demonstrating the it controls required to comply with internal control assessments, including provisions of the u.s. sarbanes-oxley act and other data privacy and protection regulations. middleware oracle fusion middleware is a broad family of application infrastructure products that forms a reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build, deploy, secure, access and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. oracle fusion middleware suites and products can be used in conjunction with custom, packaged and composite applications. oracle fusion middleware is available in various products and suites, including the below functional areas: application server and application grid; business intelligence; identity and access management; content management; portal and user interaction; service-oriented architecture and business process management; data integration; and development tools oracle fusion middleware is designed to protect customers it investments and work with both oracle and non-oracle database, middleware and applications products through its hot-pluggable architecture (which enables customers to easily install and use oracle fusion middleware products within their existing it environments) and adherence to industry standards such as java ee (formerly j2ee) and business process execution language (bpel), among others. by using oracle fusion middleware, our customers increase their capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their risks related to security and compliance, increase user productivity and drive better business decisions. specifically, oracle fusion middleware enables customers to easily integrate heterogeneous business applications, automate business processes, scale applications to meet customer demand, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to utilize their existing it systems. in addition, oracle fusion middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications. oracle fusion middleware is used to support oracle applications, other enterprise applications, independent software vendors that build their own custom applications and business processes that span multiple application environments. 4 table of contents application server and application grid the foundation of oracle fusion middleware is oracle weblogic server. designed for grid computing, oracle weblogic server incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. our ongoing development of existing oracle fusion middleware products, combined with our acquisition of bea systems, inc. in fiscal 2008, enables us to provide our customers with additional application grid capabilities, including oracle coherence for rapid access to information, oracle jrockit to create java virtual machines and the scalable messaging and transaction processing platform products of oracle tuxedo. business intelligence oracle business intelligence (bi) provides visibility into how customers businesses are performing and helps them plan and model to improve that performance. bi is a portfolio of technology and applications that provides an integrated end-to-end system called enterprise performance management (epm) that unites our bi foundation and data warehousing products with our bi and epm applications (described further below) to offer our customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform. our bi foundation products include oracle bi suite enterprise edition plus, oracle bi standard edition one, oracle essbase and oracle bi publisher. our bi foundation products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence, mobile analytics and desktop gadgets. our data integration and warehousing products enable the extraction, transformation and loading of quality data in order for that data to be accurately searched and analyzed. identity and access management oracle identity and access management products and suites make it easier for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage access privileges for customers, employees and partners. our customers use oracle identity and access management offerings to secure their information from potential threats and increase compliance levels, while lowering the total cost of their security and compliance initiatives. content management unstructured information, which is data that is not easily readable or has not been stored so that it can be used efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information residing in most businesses and public sector entities. oracle content management solutions provide a comprehensive set of capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and collaborate on, archive, retain, manage business process flows and manage information access rights to documents and other unstructured content file types. oracle content management solutions support an extensive set of document and image formats. specific benefits include the ability to use external facing websites as strategic marketing assets and rapid communication channels, to automate paper-based processes and to enforce document retention and security policies. portal and user interaction oracle webcenter suite enables personalized web portals and task-oriented web applications to be developed and deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. these features provide users with a single interface through which they can access information from any number of enterprise applications, systems, information sources and processes. oracle webcenter also includes integrated enterprise 2.0 capabilities that enable customers to work together in teams via the internet and capitalize on collective intelligence within their enterprise and with their partners and customers. the addition of oracle webcenter services in fiscal 2009 includes the ability to incorporate these enterprise 2.0 capabilities into existing portal environments, including those built with oracle portal, oracle weblogic portal and oracle webcenter interaction (formerly aqualogic user interaction). 5 table of contents service-oriented architecture suite and business process management service-oriented architecture (soa) is an it strategy that creates a modular, re-usable approach to applications development and reduces the need for costly custom development. oracle soa suite is a complete set of service infrastructure components for creating, deploying, and managing soas, including oracle jdeveloper, oracle bpel process manager, oracle web services manager, oracle business rules, oracle business activity monitoring, and oracle service bus. the combination of oracle business process management and oracle soa suite enables business and it professionals to collaborate, implement, automate and change business processes in a comprehensive fashion, which accelerates development and transition time and reduces costly quality assurance cycles. oracle soa suite is hot-pluggable , enabling customers to easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing investments. oracle soa governance maintains the security and integrity of our customers soa deployments. data integration through oracle data integration suite, we offer best-of-breed and unified data integration technologies that enable customers to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. our data integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes. with our open and hot-pluggable data integration components, organizations can continue to use and evolve their it infrastructure instead of replacing it. oracle data integration suite can extract data from one system and load it into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly transform the data into a new format. it also includes technology to address data quality and data profiling. developer tools oracle jdeveloper is an integrated software environment designed to facilitate rapid development of java applications, portlets, web services, process models and rich internet applications (ria) such as flash and ajax, among others. oracle jdeveloper provides a comprehensive java development environment for modeling, building, debugging and testing enterprise-class java ee applications and web services. it is also integrated with the oracle application development framework (adf), which provides a framework for building applications, including a set of components that enable developers to build ria based on java user interface standards and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern ria technologies. applications software our applications software strategy is designed to help customers reduce the cost and complexity of their it infrastructures, by delivering industry solutions that are complete, open, and integrated. through a focused strategy of investments in organic research and development and strategic acquisitions, we provide industry-specific solutions for customers in over 20 industries, from retail and communications to financial services and the public sector. our solutions are delivered on an open, standards-based architecture to support customer choice, reduce customer risk and enable customers to differentiate their businesses using our technologies. new software license revenues from applications software represented 28%, 32% and 29% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. central to our applications strategy is our applications unlimited program, which is our commitment to offer customers that purchase software license updates and product support contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own. until our customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own, we protect their investments in their applications by offering them the ability to purchase software license updates and product support contracts for their existing products. solutions such as oracle fusion middleware, oracle business intelligence suite, oracle webcenter, and oracle user productivity kit are designed to help customers extend the benefits of their it investments in our applications, to reduce their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that best fits their needs. we also protect our customers investments in oracle applications by delivering new product releases that incorporate customer-specific and industry-specific innovations across product lines. since announcing our applications unlimited program in fiscal 2005, we have delivered a number of new product releases and 6 table of contents enhancements. in fiscal 2009, we continued our product investment with new versions of oracle e-business suite, jd edwards enterpriseone, jd edwards world and siebel customer relationship management, including crm on demand. our applications software products combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity. our applications software products enable efficient management of all core business functions, including: enterprise resource planning (erp), customer relationship management (crm), enterprise performance management (epm), enterprise project portfolio management (eppm), product lifecycle management (plm), and industry-specific applications. our applications software products are offered as integrated suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. our applications are available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of location specific requirements, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements. oracle application integration architecture provides an open, standards-based framework for creating adaptable, cross-application business processes. for customers looking to quickly deploy integrations between oracle applications, oracle application integration architecture also offers packaged integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of mission-critical business applications. enterprise resource planning (erp) companies use our erp applications to automate and integrate a variety of their key global business processes, including: manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable, general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and human resources. our erp applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower the cost of their business operations by providing their customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet access to both transaction processing and critical business information. customer relationship management (crm) we offer a complete set of crm applications that manage all of the business processes and associated systems that touch a customer, including: billing and delivery; sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer and supply chain information; and service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by providing visibility into customer billing and order information. enterprise performance management (epm) we offer a full spectrum of epm applications that are open, industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality for delivering insight across the enterprise. our business analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into a customer operations and financial performance. our performance management applications, combined with our bi analytics, bi foundation and data warehousing products, enable us to offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end epm system that spans 7 table of contents planning, consolidation, operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools, reporting and data integration, all on a unified business intelligence platform. enterprise project portfolio management (eppm) with our acquisition of primavera software, inc. in the second quarter of fiscal 2009, we added eppm software solutions for project-intensive industries such as engineering and construction, aerospace and defense, utilities, oil and gas, manufacturing, and professional services. our eppm solutions help companies propose, prioritize and select project investments and plan, manage and control the most complex projects and project portfolios. industry applications our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. as a part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries. we continue to expand our offerings in a number of other key industries we view as strategic to our future growth, including retail, banking and financial services, communications, utilities, health sciences, insurance, manufacturing, education, professional services, and the public sector. in fiscal 2009, we added expertise in the social services industry through our acquisition of haley limited, a leading provider of policy modeling and automation software for legislative and regulated industries such as public sector, financial services, and insurance. software license updates and product support we seek to protect and enhance our customers current investments in oracle technology and applications by offering proactive and personalized support services, including our lifetime support policy, product enhancements and upgrades. software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content through my oracle support. software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license fees. substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. in addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. we also offer oracle unbreakable linux support, which provides enterprise level support for the linux operating system and oracle vm server virtualization software support. our software license updates and product support revenues represented 50% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, and 46% of total revenues in both fiscal 2008 and 2007. services business consulting oracle consulting assists our customers in successfully deploying our applications and technology products. our consulting services include: business/it strategy alignment; business process simplification; solution integration; and product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades. these services help our customers achieve measurable business results, manage their total cost of ownership and reduce the risk associated with their product deployment. oracle consulting employs consulting professionals globally to engage our customers directly, as well as to provide specialized expertise to our global systems integrator partners. oracle consulting utilizes a global blended delivery model to achieve economies of scale for our customers. this global delivery model consists of onsite consultants within the customer local geography as well as consultants in our global delivery and solution centers. consulting revenues represented 14%, 15% and 16% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. on demand on demand includes our oracle on demand and advanced customer services offerings. oracle on demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for customers that deploy 8 table of contents over the internet our database, middleware and applications software delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-site at customer facilities. advanced customer services consists of solution lifecycle management services, database and application management services, industry-specific solution support centers, and remote and on-site expert services. on demand revenues represented 3% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. education we provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our technology around the world. we currently offer thousands of courses covering all of our product offerings. our training is provided primarily through public and private instructor-led classroom events, but is also made available through a variety of online courses and self paced media training on cd-roms. most recently, oracle university launched live virtual class offerings that allow students anywhere in the world to connect to a live instructor-led class. in addition, we also offer a certification program certifying database administrators, developers and implementers. oracle university also offers user adoption services designed to provide comprehensive training services to help customers get the most out of their investment in oracle. education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007. marketing and sales sales distribution channels we directly market and sell our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. in the united states, our sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the country. outside the united states, our international subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partnernetwork. the oracle partnernetwork is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. by offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the oracle partnernetwork program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. international markets we sell our products and provide services globally. our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our products. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. seasonality and cyclicality our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services. our revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. general economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. the markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues. see selected quarterly financial data in item 7 of this annual report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses and margins. 9 table of contents customers our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. no single customer accounted for 10% or more of our total revenues in fiscal 2009, 2008 or 2007. competition the enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely competitive and evolving rapidly. we compete in various segments of this industry including, but not limited to: database software (including the sale of our exadata database machine, which is hardware sold with preconfigured oracle database software and is more fully described above); middleware (including application server, business intelligence, data integration, portal server and identity management); enterprise applications; content management and collaboration; development tools; enterprise management software; software-as-a-service; hosted and on demand solutions; operating systems (by virtue of our distribution of enterprise linux); virtualization software; and consulting/systems integration. key competitive factors in each of the segments that we compete include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, functionality, ease of use, compliance with open standards, product reliability, service-oriented architecture, security and quality of technical support. our customers are also demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings (particularly our database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a stack of software designed to work together in a standards-compliant environment. our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus our competitors products) are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other things: the broader platform competition between industry standard java ee (formerly, j2ee) programming platform by sun microsystems, inc. (sun) and the .net programming environment of microsoft corporation (microsoft); operating system competition among, primarily, microsoft windows server, unix (including sun solaris, hp-ux from hewlett packard company (hp) and aix from international business machines corporation (ibm)) and linux; open source alternatives to commercial software, which are typically offered free of charge, subject to certain restrictions, and are readily available over the internet. open source vendors will typically charge fees for commercial versions or unrestricted licenses of these products and for technical support of these products; and software-as-a-service (saas) offerings, which also continue to alter the competitive landscape. 10 table of contents the following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete due to the nature of the enterprise software industry, where the competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change: in the sale of database software, scalability, reliability, availability and security are key competitive differentiators for us. our competitors include ibm, microsoft, sybase, inc. (sybase), ncr corporation teradata division, sas institute, inc., netezza corporation, progress software corporation (progress software) and open source databases such as sun mysql, ingres and postgresql, among others. our ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database product offerings has enabled us to maintain our leading position in database software over our competitors. in the sale of middleware products, our offerings include application server and application grid, business intelligence, identity and access management, portal and user interaction, service-oriented architecture and business process management, and data integration. our ability to offer a full range of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a key competitive differentiator which has contributed to rapid growth of our middleware solutions in recent years relative to our competitors. our middleware competitors include ibm, microsoft, sap ag, sun, progress software, fujitsu software corporation, hitachi software engineering co., ltd., open source vendors such as red hat, inc. (jboss), apache geronimo, liferay, inc., springsource, inc., mulesource, inc. and jaspersoft corporation, as well as several other competitors in each element of our packaged functions such as tibco software, inc., software ag, soa software, inc., savvion, inc., microstrategy, inc., ca, inc. (ca), siemens ag, courion corporation, emc corporation (rsa), informatica corporation, novell, inc. (novell), lombardi software, inc. and pegasystems, inc., among others. competition in the sale of applications software, in particular, is multifaceted and subject to rapid change. we currently offer several application product lines that are designed to address functions applicable to customers across many industries (e.g., enterprise resource planning (erp) or customer relationship management (crm)), as well as applications specific to operations in particular industry verticals, such as retail, financial services, communications, tax and utilities, health sciences, public sector and others. one of the main competitive differentiators in applications software is our ability to combine best-of-breed software, suite software and our application integration architecture, without adding complexity for the end user. our applications offerings (including our on demand/hosted and saas offerings) typically compete with commercial software vendors pre-packaged applications, applications offered as on demand, saas, or hosted offerings, open source applications, applications developed in-house by customers, applications that were custom developed by other software vendors or systems integrators, applications consisting of a variety of discrete pieces of functionality from multiple providers that have been customized and implemented by systems integrators or consultants (such as ibm global services and accenture ltd.) and business process outsourcers (such as automatic data processing, inc. (adp), fidelity investments, ceridian corporation, hewitt associates, inc., accero software (formerly cyborg systems limited) and others). the variety of competing offerings is even more pronounced in industry verticals where complete industry solutions either do not exist or are addressed by combining offerings of multiple software offerings. as a result, our applications compete against offerings from the vendors listed above as well as sap ag, ibm (through maximo, mro software, ascential software, cognos), microsoft (through dynamics gp, dynamics nav, dynamics ax, dynamics crm, dynamics snap, dynamics sl), lawson software, inc., infor global solutions (with numerous independent product lines coming from acquisitions including agilisys, baan, infor gmbh, ssa global technologies, extensity and datastream), ariba, inc., ifs ab, jda software group, inc., i2 technologies, inc., manhattan associates, inc. the sage group plc, salesforce.com, inc., taleo corporation, successfactors, inc., as well as many other application providers and point solution providers. in the sale of content management and collaboration products, we compete with microsoft, ibm (through domino/notes/filenet), emc corporation (documentum), open text corporation, autonomy corporation plc (interwoven), hp (through tower software), sap ag and vignette corporation, as well as open source vendors such as alfresco software, inc., among others. in the sale of development tools, ease of use, standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated code generation) are key competitive differentiators. in this area, we compete against ibm (through websphere studio), microsoft (through visualstudio.net), sun (through sun studio), sybase (through powerbuilder) and others, 11 table of contents including eclipse foundation, inc. (eclipse), an open source vendor. the success of our development tools is closely related to the relative popularity of our other offerings (database and middleware and applications) compared to our competitors as well as the larger platform competition between sun java and microsoft .net. in the sale of enterprise management software, we compete with bmc software, inc., quest software, inc., ibm tivoli, hp, ca, compuware corporation, embarcadero technologies, inc., and open source vendors such as hyperic, inc. in the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and service offering for red hat open source linux operating system in fiscal 2007. this placed us in competition with others who offer support for the linux operating system, including red hat, novell, inc. and canonical ltd. (through ubuntu); as well as with the unix operating systems of ibm, sun, hp and others and the windows server operating systems of microsoft. in the sale of virtualization products, our offerings compete with those of vmware, inc., ibm, microsoft, sun and citrix systems, inc., among others, including other vendors of open source virtualization products. in the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we both partner with and compete against accenture ltd., hp, ibm global services, bearing point, inc., capgemini group, and many others (both large and small). in the sale of many of our products, we also compete with products and features developed internally by customers and their it staff. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have acquired technology through business acquisitions. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $2.8 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.2 billion, in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, or 12% of total revenues in each of the aforementioned fiscal years. as a percentage of new software license revenues, research and development expenditures were 39%, 36% and 37% in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software markets in which we compete. we plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings including our database, middleware and applications software products. employees as of may 31, 2009, we employed approximately 86,000 full-time employees, including 20,000 in sales and marketing, 8,000 in software license updates and product support, 28,000 in services, 22,000 in research and development and 8,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 28,000 were located in the united states and 58,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain international subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. 12 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president and director charles e. phillips, jr. president and director keith g. block executive vice president, north america sales and consulting jeff epstein executive vice president and chief financial officer loic le guisquet executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa (emea) sales and consulting luiz meisler executive vice president, latin america sales and consulting juergen rottler executive vice president, oracle customer services charles a. rozwat executive vice president, product development derek h. williams executive vice president, japan sales and consulting dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 64, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 64, has served as the chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as an executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. he also serves as a director of callwave, inc. ms. catz, 47, has been a president since january 2004 and has served as a director since october 2001. she was chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. she served as an executive vice president from november 1999 to january 2004 and senior vice president from april 1999 to october 1999. she also serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. phillips, 50, has been a president and has served as a director since january 2004. he served as executive vice president, strategy, partnerships, and business development, from may 2003 to january 2004. he also serves as a director of morgan stanley and viacom, inc. mr. block, 48, has been executive vice president, north america sales and consulting since september 2002 and executive vice president, north america consulting since february 2002. he served as senior vice president of north america commercial consulting and global service lines from june 1999 until january 2002. he served as senior vice president of the commercial consulting practice from april 1999 until may 1999. mr. block was group vice president, east consulting from june 1997 until march 1999. mr. epstein, 52, has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since september 2008. prior to joining us, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of oberon media, inc., a privately held internet game technology provider and publisher from april 2007 to june 2008. from june 2005 until its sale in march 2007, mr. epstein was executive vice president and chief financial officer of advo, inc., a direct mail media company. mr. epstein was a member of the board of directors of revonet, inc., a business-to-business marketing and database company, from january 2004 to december 2005, chairman of the board from december 2004 to december 2005 and the acting president and chief executive officer from june 2004 through december 2004. mr. epstein also serves as a director of priceline.com incorporated. mr. le guisquet, 47, has been executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa (emea) sales and consulting since december 2008. he served as senior vice president, western central europe applications from june 2006 until november 2008. he served as senior vice president, oracle customer relationship management emea from january 2006 until june 2006. he served as senior vice president, emea consulting from august 2003 until january 2006. he also held various other emea regional executive positions with us since january 1990. 13 table of contents mr. meisler, 56, has been executive vice president, latin america sales and consulting since july 2008. he served as senior vice president, latin america sales and consulting from december 2001 to july 2008; as vice president, latin america sales and consulting from june 2001 to december 2001; and as managing director of oracle brazil from january 2000 to may 2001. he served as vice president, latin america consulting from june 1999 to january 2000 and as vice president, oracle brazil consulting from march 1998 to may 1999. mr. rottler, 42, has been executive vice president, oracle customer services since september 2006. he was executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand, from january 2005 to september 2006 and was executive vice president, oracle on demand, from september 2004 to january 2005. prior to joining us, he served as senior vice president, public sector, customer solutions group at hewlett-packard company (hp), from december 2003 to september 2004, where he was responsible for hp worldwide public sector, health and education business. he also held various other global and regional executive positions in hp services and software business units since 1997. mr. rozwat, 61, has been executive vice president, product development, since october 2007. he served as executive vice president, server technologies from november 1999 to october 2007 and served as senior vice president, database server from december 1996 to october 1999. he served as vice president of development from december 1994 to november 1996. mr. williams, 64, has been executive vice president, japan sales and consulting since june 2008 and was executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting from october 2000 to may 2008. he served as senior vice president, asia pacific from july 1993 to october 2000 and as vice president, asia pacific from april 1991 to july 1993. he joined oracle united kingdom in october 1988 and served as regional director, strategic accounts from october 1988 to april 1991. ms. daley, 50, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004, and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she joined oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 47, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. prior to joining us, he served as intuit inc. director of accounting from august 2005 to march 2007, as the gap, inc. assistant controller from april 2005 to august 2005, and as vice president, finance, at cadence design systems, inc. product business from june 2001 to april 2005. he also spent 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the effects of the current recession and the recent global economic crisis may impact our business, results of operations, financial condition or stock price. the current recession and recent global economic crisis have caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. these macroeconomic developments could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition in a number of ways which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. for example, current or potential customers may reduce their it spending or be unable to fund software or services purchases, which could cause them to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. 14 table of contents in some financial markets, institutions may decrease or discontinue their purchase of the long-term customer financing contracts that we have traditionally sold on a non-recourse basis. as a result, we may hold more of these contracts ourselves or require more customers to purchase our products and services on a cash basis. in addition, financial institution weakness or failures may cause us to incur increased expenses or make it more difficult either to utilize our existing debt capacity or otherwise obtain financing for our operations, investing activities or financing activities (including the financing of any future acquisitions and the timing and amount of any future dividend declarations or repurchases of our common stock or our debt). finally, our investment portfolio, which includes short-term debt securities, is generally subject to general credit, liquidity, counterparty, market and interest rate risks that may be exacerbated by the recent global financial crisis. if the banking system or the fixed income, credit or equity markets continue to deteriorate or remain volatile, our investment portfolio may be impacted and the values and liquidity of our investments could be adversely affected. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; currency exchange rate fluctuations; the overall demand for enterprise software and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. a general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in, the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. in addition, terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in afghanistan and iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses and related services and, to a lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate. a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. because our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software license transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small 15 table of contents number of these transactions could cause our quarterly new software license revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software market in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or purchase or renew software license updates and product support contracts. renewals of these support contracts are an important factor in the growing software license update and product support segment of our business. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we are currently building oracle fusion applications, which are being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all oracle applications in a complete suite. we have also announced that we intend to extend the life of many of our acquired products and will continue to provide long-term support for many of our acquired products, both of which require us to dedicate resources. if we do not develop and release these new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future, including our currently pending acquisition of sun microsystems, inc. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may pay more than the acquired company or assets are ultimately worth or we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, which could adversely affect our business or operating results; we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets, in each case where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or by other circumstances related to an acquisition, including claims related to an acquired business or technology from government agencies, terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; 16 table of contents we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if it all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; we may experience additional and/or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles (gaap), including our adoption of fasb statement no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations, in fiscal 2010, which could materially affect our consolidated financial statements; and to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software development, sales, customer support, consulting, on demand and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our international operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are 17 table of contents recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; regulatory changes; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited (formerly i-flex solutions limited), a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. our revenues and operating results in fiscal 2009 have been unfavorably affected by the recent strengthening u.s. dollar relative to other major foreign currencies. our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; 18 table of contents the functionality of products overlap; the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry; and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. specific patent infringement cases are discussed under note 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and/or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. part of our total compensation program includes stock options which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees. our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. 19 table of contents any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our new software license revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including software-as-a-service (saas) providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we may be unable to compete effectively within the highly competitive software industry. many vendors develop and market databases, internet application server products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our offerings. in addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing (bpo) and saas as competitive alternatives to buying software, and customer interest in bpo and saas solutions is increasing. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer bpo or saas solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. in fiscal 2010, we will adopt fasb statement no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations and fasb staff position (fsp) fas 141(r)-1 accounting for assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combinations that arise from contingencies . accounting for our acquisitions pursuant to statement 141(r) is significantly different than how we have historically accounted for our acquisitions under existing accounting principles and these differences could materially impact our results of operations or financial position. the more significant differences include how we account for restructuring liabilities associated with an acquisition, costs incurred to effect the acquisition, changes in estimates of income tax valuation allowances and liabilities for uncertain tax positions associated with an acquisition, and how we reflect goodwill adjustments in comparative financial statements, among others. a more thorough discussion of our accounting for these and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). for any business combination that is consummated pursuant to statement 141(r), we will recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interest in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we 20 table of contents complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of assumed contingent liabilities after the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date) has ended; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to changes in deferred tax asset valuation allowances and liabilities related to uncertain tax positions after the measurement period has ended; charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, oracle on demand and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business operations. end users, who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. in addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant 21 table of contents amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the united states government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the united states congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our on demand offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of may 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of $10.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between 2010 and 2038, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 17 in notes to consolidated financial statements. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, such as the recent proposal by president obama administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. our intercompany transfer 22 table of contents pricing is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we previously negotiated three unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the irs from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. these agreements are effective for fiscal years through may 31, 2006. we have submitted to the irs a request for renewal of this advance pricing agreement for the years ending may 31, 2007 through may 31, 2011. however, these agreements do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the united states. we have finalized one bilateral advance pricing agreement, which was effective for the years ending may 31, 2002 through may 31, 2006 and we have submitted a renewal for the years ending may 31, 2007 through may 31, 2011. there can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. during the fiscal year ended may 31, 2009, we concluded an additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from june 1, 2001 through january 25, 2008. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures. oracle on demand and crm on demand may not be successful. we offer oracle on demand outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. we also offer crm on demand, which is a service offering that provides our customers with our crm software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues, develop them into profitable businesses or maintain their profitability. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our oracle on demand and crm on demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. these businesses are subject to a variety of additional risks, including: we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through oracle on demand and crm on demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to oracle brand and future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information; we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance; the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services; demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks, international transfers of data, government or other third-party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers, computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends 23 table of contents unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 61 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with a number of large, diverse financial institutions worldwide that we believe mitigates some of the exposures associated with our holdings with these financial institutions. in addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, substantially all with relatively short maturities (see a description of our debt securities held in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements and liquidity and capital resources above). therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2009, total interest income was $279 million with our investments yielding an average 2.23% on a worldwide basis. this interest rate level was down by 121 basis points from 3.44% for fiscal 2008. if overall interest rates fell by 100 basis points from our average of 2.23% during fiscal 2009, our annual interest income would decline by approximately $121 million, assuming consistent investment levels. the table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and the related weighted average 61 table of contents interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2009. the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are recorded at their fair values at may 31, 2009. may 31, 2009 fair value of available-for-sale weighted average (dollars in millions) securities interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 8,995 0.83% marketable securities 3,629 1.14% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 12,624 0.92% interest expense risk our borrowings as of may 31, 2009 were $10.2 billion, consisting of $9.2 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes that are due in may 2010 and bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month libor plus 0.06% per year (0.97% at may 31, 2009). we have entered into an interest rate swap arrangement to manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations associated with our 2010 floating rate senior notes so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively became fixed at a rate of 4.59%, thereby reducing the impact of future interest rate changes on our future interest expense. we do not use interest rate swap arrangements for trading purposes. the critical terms of the interest rate swap agreement and the 2010 senior notes match, including the notional amounts, interest rate reset dates, maturity dates and underlying market indices. accordingly, we have designated the swap as a qualifying instrument and are accounting for the swap as a cash flow hedge pursuant to fasb statement no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities. the unrealized losses on the swap are included in accumulated other comprehensive income and the corresponding fair value payable is included in other current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet. the periodic interest settlements, which occur at the same interval as the interest payment and reset dates as the 2010 senior notes, are recorded as interest expense. foreign currency risk foreign currency transaction risk we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. these foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions. our forward contracts generally have terms of 90 days or less. we do not use foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes. all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are marked to market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses resulting from fair value changes included in non-operating income, net (the effective portion of our yen net investment hedge described below is included in stockholders equity). our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. the notional amounts of foreign currency forward contracts to purchase and sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $860 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, and to purchase euros in exchange for other major international currencies was 142 million ($198 million), as of may 31, 2009. the net unrealized gains of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $2 million at may 31, 2009. net foreign exchange transaction (losses) gains included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $(65) million, $17 million and $17 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. foreign currency translation risk fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these 62 table of contents subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure and provide a discussion in foreign currency net investment risk below. as the u.s. dollar strengthened against most major international currencies during fiscal 2009, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for these subsidiaries as of may 31, 2009 declined relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2008. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007 was a (decrease) increase of $(501) million, $437 million, and $149 million, respectively. the following table includes the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies at may 31, 2009. u.s. dollar equivalent at (in millions) may 31, 2009 euro $ 1,372 british pound 655 chinese renminbi 635 indian rupee 333 japanese yen 196 canadian dollar 171 other foreign currencies 1,617 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 4,979 if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would decrease by approximately $498 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable security balances. foreign currency net investment risk we hedge the net assets of certain of our international subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. we measure the effectiveness of our net investment hedges by using the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial statements and better manages interest rate differentials between different countries. under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in stockholders equity to offset the translation results on the net investments. the remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion, if any) is recognized in non-operating income, net. net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in stockholders equity, net of tax effects, were $(41) million, $(53) million and $28 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. net gains on investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were $10 million, $23 million and $28 million in fiscal 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. at may 31, 2009, we had one net investment hedge in japanese yen. the yen net investment hedge minimizes currency risk arising from net assets held in yen as a result of equity capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary offering of our majority owned subsidiary, oracle japan. the notional amount of our net investment hedge was $694 million and had a nominal fair value as of may 31, 2009.risk factors 13 risk factors. when used in this report, the words expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after the date of this document. you should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission, including the quarterly reports on form 10-q to be filed by us in our 2008 fiscal year, which runs from june 1, 2007 to may 31, 2008. part i item 1. business general we are the world largest enterprise software company. we develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. we also provide support for the linux open source operating system through our oracle unbreakable linux support program, which provides our customers with our industry-leading global support programs for linux. our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated software systems that provide transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organization unique needs and allow better ways to access and manage information at a lower total cost of ownership. we seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets. in fiscal 2007, we focused on strengthening our competitive position and enhancing our existing portfolio of products and services as well as acquiring and integrating businesses. an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. in the last three fiscal years, we have invested over $25 billion, in the aggregate, to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies, including the acquisition of peoplesoft, inc., siebel systems, inc. and hyperion solutions corporation. typically, the significant majority of our integration activities related to an acquisition are substantially complete in the united states within three to six months after the closing of the acquisition. we believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base and provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grow our earnings and increase stockholder value. we expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. oracle corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in june 1977. software and services we are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) on demand and (3) education. our software and services businesses represented 79% and 21% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007 and 80% and 20% of our total revenues, respectively, in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. see note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information related to our operating segments. 1 table of contents software business new software licenses new software licenses include the licensing of database and middleware software, which consists of oracle database and oracle fusion middleware, as well as applications software. our technology and business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of interconnected database servers, application servers, web servers and computers as well as mobile devices running web browsers. this architecture enables users to access business data and applications through a universally adopted web browser interface, while providing enterprises the most efficient and cost effective method of managing business information and applications. in an internet model, database servers manage and protect the underlying business information, while application servers run the business applications that automate a myriad of business functions. we have focused on concepts such as global single instance application deployment that involve fewer, high quality databases of important business information, rather than dozens or hundreds of disparate databases that are difficult to synchronize and coordinate. our integrated architecture provides high quality business information and can be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. oracle technology operates on single server or clustered server configurations, and supports a choice of operating systems including linux, unix and windows. in fiscal 2007, we introduced a program to support the linux open source operating system for our customers information technology (it) platforms. new software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software license updates and product support. the standard end user software license agreement for our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other metrics. we also have other types of software license agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license term. new software license revenues represented 33%, 34% and 35% of total revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. database and middleware software our grid software provides a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for small and mid-size businesses and large global enterprises. with an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing their total cost of it infrastructure, oracle grid software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments, using clusters of low cost servers and storage that can incrementally scale as required. the unique ability to assign computing resources as required simplifies our customers computing capacity, planning and procurement in order to support all of their business applications. with an oracle grid infrastructure, our customers can lower their investment in it hardware, reduce their risk of it infrastructure downtime and easily cope with sudden increases in demand on their it environments during high traffic periods. new software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 71%, 73% and 81% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. database as the world most popular database, oracle relational database enables the secure storage, manipulation and retrieval of all forms of data including structured data that resides in business applications, xml data, analytics data, spatial data and other unstructured data such as documents, spreadsheets and images. designed for enterprise grid computing, the oracle database is available in four editions: express edition, standard edition one, standard edition and enterprise edition. all editions are built using the same underlying code, which means that database applications can easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor servers. options to oracle database enterprise edition are available to meet specific requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high availability, security and compliance, data warehousing, unstructured data integration and systems management. examples of these options include: oracle real application clusters, which consolidates a single, scalable and fault tolerant database that is shared across an interconnected cluster of servers (also available on our other database editions); oracle partitioning, which supports large transaction processing and business intelligence database systems and cost effectively manages data throughout its lifecycle; and oracle 2 table of contents warehouse builder connectors, which design, build and populate data warehouses from a variety of legacy repositories. enterprise manager oracle enterprise manager is designed to deliver top-down applications management. our customers use oracle enterprise manager to monitor and manage their applications and underlying software infrastructure, including both oracle and non-oracle infrastructure products. oracle enterprise manager can be used to manage packaged applications, such as siebel, peoplesoft, oracle e-business suite or custom applications including service-oriented applications. in addition to managing oracle software infrastructure products including the oracle database and oracle fusion middleware, oracle enterprise manager also supports third-party infrastructure products. oracle enterprise manager is designed to monitor service levels and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration information, and provide change management in a unified way across groups of computers or grids. oracle enterprise manager provisioning automates the discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and allows it administrators to apply patches without taking their system down. additionally, it administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an html browser or through wireless pdas. secure enterprise search oracle secure enterprise search provides an internet-like search experience to users searching secure content inside the enterprise. oracle secure enterprise search indexes and searches public, private and shared content across internal and external web sites, databases, file servers, document repositories, enterprise content management systems, applications and portals. oracle secure enterprise search has built-in functionality that permits users to see only search results leading to information for which they have authorized access. the product features a simple web interface allowing for efficient administration and management. additionally, users can access the search engine through web-based user interfaces and perform traditional keyword searches that provide results in a format similar to conventional web searches. middleware oracle fusion middleware is a broad product family that forms a reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build, deploy and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. oracle fusion middleware includes oracle application server, oracle identity and access management suite, oracle webcenter suite, oracle business intelligence suite, oracle developer suite, oracle service oriented architecture suite, oracle enterprise content management suite and oracle business process analysis suite, among others. oracle fusion middleware is designed to protect our customers it investments and work with both oracle and non-oracle database, applications and middleware products through its hot-pluggable architecture and adherence to industry standards such as j2ee and business process execution language (bpel). by using oracle fusion middleware, our customers increase their capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their risks related to security and compliance, increase user productivity, and drive better business decisions. specifically, oracle fusion middleware enables customers to easily integrate heterogeneous business applications, automate business processes, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycle of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to utilize their existing it systems. in addition, oracle fusion middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications. oracle fusion middleware is used to support oracle applications, as well as other enterprise applications and independent software vendors that build their own custom applications. application server the foundation of oracle fusion middleware is oracle application server. designed for grid computing, oracle application server incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. oracle application server also provides a complete integration platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business, application and data integration projects. 3 table of contents identity and access management suite the oracle identity and access management suite makes it easier for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage access privileges for customers, employees and partners. our customers use oracle identity and access management suite to secure their information from potential threats. in addition, our customers also use oracle identity and access management suite to increase compliance levels, while lowering the total cost of their compliance efforts. webcenter suite oracle webcenter suite enables personalized, task oriented web applications and portal sites to be rapidly developed and deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. our customers can assemble portal sites using page regions or portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide access to web-based resources such as applications, business intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced software services. with the oracle communications and mobility server option, such web and portal applications support mobile and voice-over-ip (voip) clients. business intelligence suite oracle business intelligence suite is a family of enterprise business intelligence products that unites oracle business intelligence and middleware technology with siebel business analytics to offer our customers enterprise-wide business intelligence infrastructure and tools. based on oracle hot-pluggable business intelligence infrastructure, these products deliver to our customers a full spectrum of business intelligence requirements, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc query and analysis, proactive intelligence and alerts, enterprise reporting, real-time predictive intelligence and mobile analytics. in april 2007, we acquired hyperion, a market leader in enterprise performance management and business intelligence products. as a result of the hyperion acquisition, we now offer our customers the most comprehensive, integrated, end-to-end enterprise performance management system available, spanning consolidation, planning, operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools, reporting, and data integration, all on a unified business intelligence platform. current editions of the oracle business intelligence suite include the oracle business intelligence suite enterprise edition and oracle business intelligence suite standard edition. oracle business intelligence suite enterprise edition is open to any enterprise data source and optimized for oracle or non-oracle databases, allowing customers to integrate data from all their enterprise applications, including third party and customer applications. oracle business intelligence suite standard edition is optimized to work with oracle data and applications. developer suite oracle developer suite is an integrated suite of development tools designed to facilitate rapid development of internet database applications and web services. the oracle developer suite contains application development and business intelligence tools and is built on internet standards such as java, j2ee, xml and html. the oracle developer suite includes oracle jdeveloper, a java development environment for modeling, building, debugging and testing enterprise-class j2ee applications and web services. in addition, the suite contains oracle designer, a tool that allows developers to model business processes and automatically generate enterprise database applications, and oracle forms developer, a development tool for building database applications that can be deployed unchanged in both internet and client/server based environments. the oracle developer suite also includes oracle warehouse builder software that consolidates fragmented data and metadata pulled from packaged applications, custom applications and legacy applications. oracle warehouse builder enables developers to graphically design the multidimensional database schema and to automatically generate and load data into the data warehouse. service-oriented architecture suite oracle service-oriented architecture (soa) suite is a complete set of service infrastructure components for creating, deploying, and managing soas, including oracle developer, oracle bpel process manager, oracle web 4 table of contents services manager, oracle business rules engine, oracle business activity monitoring, and oracle enterprise service bus. oracle soa suite enables services to be created, managed and orchestrated into composite applications and reconfigurable business processes, reducing development time and costs and increasing flexibility and response time. oracle soa suite is hot-pluggable, enabling customers to easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing investments. enterprise content management suite oracle enterprise content management suite provides a comprehensive set of capabilities to create, publish, share, archive and retain documents, manage business process flows involving these documents as well as manage information access rights to these documents. it supports an extensive set of document and image formats. applications software our applications strategy is designed to provide customers with a complete industry business process automation footprint, supported by a robust, standards-based technology platform. central to that strategy is our commitment to offer our customers that purchase software license updates and support contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to any of our existing or future technology offerings. until our customers upgrade, we protect their investments in their applications by providing them lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. new technologies such as oracle fusion middleware, oracle business intelligence suite, and oracle webcenter suite are designed to help our customers extend the benefits of their investment in oracle applications, to reduce their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that best fits their needs. our applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service, and workflow to deliver business intelligence and insights, adaptive industry processes, and a superior ownership experience. our applications enable efficient management of all core business functions, including customer relationship management (crm), enterprise performance management (epm), enterprise resource planning (erp) and industry-specific applications. oracle applications are offered as integrated suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures and are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. our applications are available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of location specific requirements, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements. customer relationship management (crm) we offer a complete set of crm applications that manage all of the business processes and associated systems that touch a customer, including: billing and delivery; sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer and supply chain information; and service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by providing visibility into customer billing and order information. enterprise performance management (epm) we offer a full spectrum of open, industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such as enterprise performance management, interactive dashboarding, and embedded analytic functionality for delivering insight across the enterprise. our siebel business analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving customers the ability to monitor, analyze, and act upon intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into company operations and financial performance. with our acquisition of hyperion in april 2007, we added complementary products to oracle business intelligence offerings, including a leading open enterprise planning system, financial consolidation products, and a multi-source olap server. our acquisition of hyperion enables us to offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end epm system that spans planning, consolidation, operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools, reporting, and data integration, all on a unified business intelligence platform. enterprise resource planning (erp) companies use our erp applications to automate and integrate a variety of their key global business processes including manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable, general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, 5 table of contents transportation and human resources. our erp applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies, such as workflow and self-service applications, to enable companies to lower the cost of their business operations by providing their customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet access to both transaction processing and critical business information. our erp applications are available in multiple languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements. industry applications our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. as part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries. with our acquisition of siebel, we gained expertise in the vertical markets in which siebel offered industry solutions. we have also expanded our offerings in a number of other key industries we view as strategic to our future growth, most notably in retail with our acquisitions of retek, inc. and several other companies; in banking and financial institutions with our acquisition of i-flex solutions limited; and in telecommunications with our acquisitions of portal software, inc. and metasolv, inc. these acquired industry applications are in addition to industry applications we developed for healthcare, life sciences, manufacturing, education, professional services, public sector and utilities. new software license revenues from applications software represented 29%, 27% and 19% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. applications unlimited in fiscal 2006, we announced we would continue to invest in enhancements to our current oracle e-business suite, peoplesoft enterprise, jd edwards enterpriseone, jd edwards world and siebel applications products beyond the delivery of oracle fusion applications (described below). in january 2007, we delivered five new releases of these existing product lines, incorporating new products and customer-driven enhancements in areas such as global support, localization, middleware, and analytics. with the applications unlimited program, customers will not be required to migrate to oracle fusion applications and may choose to stay with their current product lines with dedicated development and support teams. fusion applications oracle fusion applications, currently in development, represent the next generation of oracle applications, based on a service-oriented platform, built on open industry standards, extendable by customers and partners and interoperable with third party and existing installations. fusion applications are being designed to leverage the best functionality and combine the best features, flows and usability traits of our legacy and acquired application products into one product line. we believe the resulting suite of applications will deliver a superior ownership experience through improved usability, adaptive business process automation, built-in business intelligence and industry-specific capabilities. software license updates and product support we seek to protect and enhance our customers current investments in oracle technology and applications by offering lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content. software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license fees. substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. in addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. unbreakable linux support during fiscal 2007, we introduced a program to support the linux open source operating system for our customers it platforms. oracle unbreakable linux, a support program that provides enterprises with industry-leading global 6 table of contents support for linux, addresses customer demand for true enterprise-quality linux support. the oracle unbreakable linux support program delivers fully tested, high-quality, comprehensive and integrated support solutions to our customers using the linux operating system. with oracle solutions on linux, our customers benefit from high performance, reliability and data security at a fraction of the cost of proprietary platforms. oracle unbreakable linux also allows us to offer end-to-end support for our customers entire software stack, including enterprise applications, middleware, database and operating system. our software license updates and product support revenues represented 46% of total revenues in both fiscal 2007 and 2006 and 45% of total revenues in fiscal 2005. services business consulting oracle consulting assists our customers in successfully deploying our applications and technology products. our consulting services include business strategy and analysis; business process optimization; product implementation, enhancement, and upgrades; and ongoing managed services. these services help our customers to achieve measurable business results, manage their total cost of ownership, and reduce their deployment risk. oracle consulting deploys professionals globally utilizing our blended delivery capabilities, including use of onsite consultants and personnel from our offshore delivery centers and applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale for our customers. consulting revenues represented 16% of total revenues in fiscal 2007 and 15% of total revenues in both fiscal 2006 and fiscal 2005. on demand on demand includes oracle on demand, crm on demand and advanced customer services. oracle on demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for customers that deploy our database, middleware and applications software at our data center facilities or at a site of our customer choosing. we recently expanded our oracle on demand offerings to include our peoplesoft, siebel business intelligence and retail applications. crm on demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our siebel crm software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. advanced customer services consists of solution support centers, business critical assistance, technical account management, expert services, configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on-site technical services. on demand revenues represented 3% of total revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. education we provide training to customers, partners and employees as part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our technology around the world. we currently offer thousands of courses covering all of oracle product offerings. our training is provided primarily through public and private instructor-led classroom events, but is also made available through a variety of online courses and self paced media training on cd-roms. in addition, we also offer a certification program certifying database administrators, developers and implementers. oracle university also offers user adoption services designed to provide comprehensive training services to help customers get the most out of their investment in oracle. education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005. marketing and sales sales distribution channels we directly market and sell our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. in the united states our sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the united states. outside the united states, our international subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. 7 table of contents we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partnernetwork. the oracle partnernetwork is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad- based network of companies, including independent software vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. by offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the opn program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. international markets we sell our products and provide services worldwide. our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for products. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. cyclicality and seasonality general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. the markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected revenues. our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services, as our revenues are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. see quarterly results of operations in item 7 for a more complete description of the cyclicality and seasonality of our revenues and expenses. customers our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. no single customer accounted for 10% or more of revenues in fiscal 2007, 2006 or 2005. competition the enterprise software industry is intensely competitive and evolving rapidly. we compete in various segments of this industry including database software, middleware (business intelligence, application integration, portal server, j2ee application server, development tools and identity management), collaboration, development tools, enterprise applications, consulting/systems integration and operating systems, among others. total cost of ownership, performance, functionality, ease of use, standards-compliance, product reliability, security and quality of technical support are key competitive factors that face us in each of the areas in which we compete. our customers are also demanding less complexity and lower cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings (database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a stack of software designed to work together. our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus our competitors) are also affected by the broader platform competition between industry standard java (j2ee) and microsoft corporation .net programming environments and by operating system competition between windows server, unix (sun solaris, hp-ux and ibm aix) and linux. open source alternatives to commercial software, such as mysql ab in database, red hat, inc. (jboss) in middleware, and sugarcrm inc. in applications, are also impacting the competitive environment. these products are typically offered free of charge and are readily available over the internet. finally, on demand offerings, such as those from salesforce.com, continue to alter the competitive landscape. in the sale of database software and related tools, scalability, reliability, availability and security are key competitive differentiators for us. our competitors include international business machines corporation (ibm), microsoft, sybase, inc., ncr corporation teradata division, sas institute, inc., informatica corporation, and the open source databases, mysql and postgresql, among others. our ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database offering has enabled us to maintain our leading position in database software over our competitors. 8 table of contents in the sale of middleware products, our offerings include business intelligence, application integration, business process management (bpm), service oriented architecture, portal, j2ee application server, development tools and identity management software. our ability to offer a full range of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a key competitive differentiator. our competitors include ibm, microsoft, bea systems, inc., sap ag, sun microsystems inc., sybase and open source vendors such as red hat (jboss), apache geronimo and objectweb, as well as other competitors in each element of our packaged functions. business intelligence competitors include actuate corporation, business objects s.a., cognos incorporated, microstrategy, inc., sas institute, tibco software, inc. (spotfire), open source vendors netezza corporation, and others. application server competitors include borland software corporation, fujitsu software corporation, hitachi software engineering co., ltd., adobe systems incorporated and others. enterprise application integration competitors include software ag (webmethods), tibco, iona technologies plc, sonic software corporation, sun microsystems and others. bpm competitors include lombardi software, inc., savvion, inc., pegasystems inc. and others. enterprise portal vendors include vignette corporation, novell, inc., fujitsu, and others. identity management vendors include ibm, ca, inc., sun microsystems and hewlett-packard company, among others. open source vendors red hat and novell are also increasingly bundling middleware functionality with their respective linux distributions. our middleware solutions have experienced rapid growth in recent years relative to our competitors. in the sale of collaboration products, we compete primarily with microsoft (exchange/outlook), ibm (domino/notes), novell (groupwise) and cisco systems, inc. (webex). in addition, we compete in the related content management markets with emc corporation (documentum), ibm (filenet), percussion software, inc. and vignette, among others. in the sale of development tools, ease of use, standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated code generation) are key competitive differentiators. we compete against ibm (websphere studio), microsoft 8 (visualstudio.net), sun microsystems (sun studio), sybase (powerbuilder) and others, including eclipse foundation, inc. (eclipse), an open source vendor. the success of our development tools is closely related to the relative popularity of our platform (database and middleware) compared to our competitors, as well as the larger competition between java and microsoft .net. the sale of applications software, in particular, is changing rapidly due to the development and deployment of service oriented architectures and web services, application integration middleware as well as software as a service offerings, such as those from salesforce.com and rightnow technologies inc. in crm applications. as a result of our acquisitions of peoplesoft and siebel, we presently offer several product lines, which are suited for different needs of customers in different industries. we compete against sap, lawson software, inc., infor global solutions gmbh (ssa global technologies, extensity), microsoft dynamics (great plains, solomon, axapta, navision), sage, inc. and many other application providers. these include numerous point solution providers such as epicor software corporation (accounting), sungard data systems inc. (treasury), kronos incorporated (time and attendance), taleo corporation (recruitment), callidus software inc. (compensation), automatic data processing, inc. (hr, payroll and business process outsourcing), ariba, inc. (procurement), i2 technologies, inc. (supply chain management), ibm (mro software) (enterprise asset management), dsci corporation (logistics), broadvision, inc. (marketing), kana software, inc. (analytics), salesforce.com (sales force automation) and amdocs limited (customer service). in addition, we compete with numerous specialized applications providers focused in specific vertical industries, such as financial services, retail and telecommunications. sap is a major competitor in every industry vertical. specialized industry vertical solutions such as retail and banking are also influenced heavily by the presence of customized solutions and in-house development. with soa, our packaged applications also compete with custom solutions either developed in-house or by large systems integrators such as accenture ltd. or ibm global services. our pre-packaged applications also compete against business process outsourcers including adp, fidelity investments, ceridian corporation, hewitt-cyborg limited and others. our application products are architected around a single database model, which we believe is a key differentiator between our most significant competitors and us. in the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and service offering for red hat open source linux operating system in fiscal 2007. this puts us in direct competition with red hat, novell, canonical ltd. (ubuntu) and others in the sale of support for the linux operating system; with ibm, sun, h-p and others in the sale of unix operating systems; and with microsoft in the sale of windows server operating systems. 9 table of contents in the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we both partner with and compete against accenture, electronic data systems corporation, ibm global services, bearing point, inc., capgemini group and many others. research and development we develop the majority of our products internally. in addition, we have acquired technology through business acquisitions. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $2.2 billion, $1.9 billion and $1.5 billion, or 12%, 13% and 13% of total revenues, in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. as a percentage of new software license revenues, research and development expenditures were 37%, 38% and 37% in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software markets in which we compete. we plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings including our database, middleware and applications software. employees as of may 31, 2007, we employed 74,674 full-time employees, including 16,902 in sales and marketing, 6,775 in license updates and product support, 25,068 in services, 18,130 in research and development and 7,799 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, 25,990 were located in the united states and 48,684 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain international subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. 10 table of contents executive officers and significant employees of the registrant our executive officers and significant employees are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director charles e. phillips, jr. president and director keith g. block executive vice president, north america sales and consulting sergio giacoletto executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa sales and consulting juergen rottler executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand charles a. rozwat executive vice president, server technologies derek h. williams executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting john wookey senior vice president, applications development daniel cooperman senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 62, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 62, has served as the chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as an executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. he also serves as a director of callwave, inc. ms. catz, 45, has been chief financial officer since november 2005 and a president since january 2004. she has served as a director since october 2001. she was interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. she served as an executive vice president from november 1999 to january 2004 and senior vice president from april 1999 to october 1999. mr. phillips, 48, has been a president and has served as a director since january 2004. he served as executive vice president, strategy, partnerships, and business development, from may 2003 to january 2004. prior to joining us, mr. phillips was with morgan stanley co. incorporated, a global investment bank, where he was a managing director from november 1995 to may 2003 and a principal from december 1994 to november 1995. from 1986 to 1994, mr. phillips worked at various investment banking firms on wall street. prior to that, mr. phillips served as a captain in the united states marine corps as an information technology officer. mr. phillips also serves as a director of morgan stanley and viacom inc. mr. block, 46, has been executive vice president, north america sales and consulting since september 2002 and executive vice president, north america consulting since february 2002. he served as senior vice president of north america commercial consulting and global service lines from june 1999 until january 2002. he served as senior vice president of the commercial consulting practice from april 1999 until may 1999. mr. block was group vice president, east consulting from june 1997 until march 1999. prior to joining us in 1986, mr. block was a senior consultant at booz, allen and hamilton. mr. giacoletto, 57, has been executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa sales and consulting since june 2000 and senior vice president, business solutions since november 1998. he was vice president, alliances and technology from march 1997 to november 1998. before joining us, he had been president of at t solutions for europe since august 1994. previously, he spent 20 years with digital equipment corporation in various positions in european marketing and services. 11 table of contents mr. rottler, 40, has been executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand since september 2004. prior to joining us, he served as senior vice president, public sector, customer solutions group at hewlett-packard company (hp), from december 2003 to september 2004, where he was responsible for hp worldwide public sector, health and education business. mr. rottler was vice president, hp services worldwide sales and marketing from may 2003 to december 2003, vice president, hp services worldwide marketing, strategy and alliances from may 2002 to may 2003 and vice president and general manager, hp services north america from april 2000 to may 2002. mr. rozwat, 59, has been executive vice president, server technologies since november 1999 and served as senior vice president, database server from december 1996 to october 1999. he served as vice president of development from december 1994 to november 1996. prior to joining us, he spent 17 years in various positions at digital equipment corporation. mr. williams, 62, has been executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting since october 2000 and senior vice president, asia pacific from july 1993 to october 2000. he served as vice president, asia pacific from april 1991 to july 1993. mr. williams joined oracle united kingdom in october 1988 and served as regional director, strategic accounts from october 1988 to april 1991. mr. wookey, 48, has been senior vice president, applications development since april 2000. mr. wookey served as senior vice president, financial applications products from april 1999 to january 2000 and vice president, financial applications products from june 1995 to april 1999. prior to joining us, he spent eight years as vice president of development at ross systems, inc. mr. cooperman, 56, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 1997. prior to joining us, he had been associated with the law firm of mccutchen, doyle, brown enersen (which is now bingham mccutchen llp) since october 1977, and had served as a partner since june 1983. from september 1995 until february 1997, mr. cooperman was chair of the law firm business and transactions group and from april 1989 through september 1995, he served as the managing partner of the law firm san jose office. mr. west, 45, has been vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since april 2007. he served as intuit inc. director of accounting from august 2005 to march 2007, as the gap, inc. assistant controller from april 2005 to august 2005, and as vice president, finance, at cadence design systems, inc. product business from june 2001 to april 2005. from january 2001 to june 2001, he was vice president, finance and corporate controller at adecco, inc. and from october 1998 to november 2000 he served in various positions with resource phoenix.com, most recently as its president and chief operating officer. mr. west spent 14 years, from december 1984 to october 1998, with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. 12 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in item 7, highlights some of these risks. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; the overall demand for enterprise software and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. a general weakening of the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate spending, could delay and decrease customer purchases. in addition, the war on terrorism, the war in iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises, as well as natural disasters, continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of software licenses, and to a lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and as a result our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in information technology spending or economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two quarters following the acquisition and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate. because a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. a delay in even a small number of large new software license transactions could cause our quarterly new software licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software market in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or renew software license updates and product support. in addition, information technology standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. 13 table of contents we are developing a next generation applications platform that is planned to combine the best features, flows and usability traits of our legacy and acquired applications. we have also announced that we intend to extend the life of many of our acquired applications and will continue to provide long-term support for our acquired products, both of which require us to dedicate resources. if we do not develop and release these new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired application lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. in the past three fiscal years, we have invested over $25 billion, in the aggregate, to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company or assets are worth; our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including issues with the company intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee, customer or partner issues; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may assume pre-existing contractual relationships of acquired companies that we would not have otherwise entered into, and exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to us or disruptive to customers; we may face litigation or other claims in connection with, or may inherit claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers or other third parties; our relationship with current and new employees, customers, partners and distributors could be impaired; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; we may assume pre-existing liabilities, whether known or unknown, of acquired companies which could be material; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if it all, which could, among other things, prevent us from completing a transaction; we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; 14 table of contents we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; result of unforeseen difficulties in our integration activities; we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our integration activities; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions; and to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/ or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from others claiming infringement, or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. we expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products overlap, the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry, and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. a patent infringement case is discussed under note 21 in our notes to consolidated financial statements. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intensely competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our new license fees. our competitors may offer a lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing 15 table of contents policies. some of our competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products, our new software license revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases or lower spending. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we may be unable to compete effectively in a range of markets within the highly competitive software industry. many vendors develop and market databases, internet application server products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our offerings. in addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing (bpo) as a competitive alternative to buying software and customer interest in bpo solutions is increasing. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. our competitors that offer business applications and application server products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose market share if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer bpo solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property free. existing or new competitors could gain market share in any of our markets at our expense. our periodic sales force restructurings can be disruptive. we continue to rely heavily on our direct sales force. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our sales force in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity; these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under purchase accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company net tangible assets, intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. going forward, the following factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; identification of assumed contingent liabilities subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and charges to income to eliminate certain oracle pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure. charges to earnings associated with acquisitions include amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and development as well as other acquisition related charges, restructuring and stock-based compensation associated 16 table of contents with assumed stock awards. charges to earnings in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations supplemental disclosure related to acquisition accounting and stock-based compensation for additional information about charges to earnings associated with our recent acquisitions. we expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with combining the operations of our previously acquired companies, which may be substantial. additional costs may include costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software development, sales, customer support and shared administrative service centers. we are subject to a variety of risks, including those related to general economic conditions in each country or region, regulatory changes, political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities and public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations. we face challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, which can entail longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, overlapping tax regimes, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. we must comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, changes in tariff rates and import and export licensing requirements. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we are a majority shareholder of i-flex solutions limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry. as the majority shareholder of an international entity, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the united states dollar. our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the united states dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies. oracle on demand and crm on demand may not be successful. we offer oracle on demand outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered either at our data center facilities or at a site of our customer choosing. we also offer crm on demand, which is a service offering that provides our customers with our siebel crm software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. these business models continue to evolve and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or develop them into profitable businesses. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our oracle on demand and crm on demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with our subscription-based contracts. these businesses are subject to a variety of risks including: demand for these services may not meet our expectations; we may not be able to operate these businesses at an acceptable profit level; 17 table of contents we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through oracle on demand and crm on demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to future business prospects in the event of system failures or inadequate disaster recovery or misappropriation of customer confidential information; we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance, as well as workforce reduction claims as a result of customers transferring their information technology functions to us; the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of offshore resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services; demand for these services may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and our offerings may require large fixed costs such as for data centers, computers, network infrastructure and security and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings. we may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we may lose key employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues which may affect our employee retention efforts and/or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. part of our total compensation program includes stock options. stock options are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we now expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we are considering include the reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, oracle on demand, and other outsourcing, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct business operations. end users, who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security 18 table of contents vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. in addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years if at all. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the united states government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the united states congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our on demand offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive, and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 21 in our notes to consolidated financial statements. peoplesoft customer assurance program may expose us to substantial liabilities if triggered. in june 2003, in response to our tender offer, peoplesoft implemented what it referred to as the customer assurance program or cap . the cap incorporated a provision in peoplesoft standard licensing arrangement that purports to contractually burden oracle, as a result of its acquisition of peoplesoft, with a contingent obligation to make payments to peoplesoft customers should oracle fail to take certain business actions for a fixed period of time subsequent to the acquisition. the payment obligation, which typically expires four years from the date of the contract, is fixed at an amount generally between two and five times the license and first year support fees paid to peoplesoft in the applicable license transaction. this purported obligation was not reflected as a liability on peoplesoft balance sheet as peoplesoft concluded that it could be triggered only following the consummation of an acquisition. peoplesoft used six different standard versions of the cap over the 18-month period commencing june 2003. peoplesoft ceased using the cap on december 29, 2004, the date on which we acquired a controlling interest in peoplesoft. we have concluded that, as of the date of the peoplesoft acquisition, the penalty provisions under the cap represented a contingent liability of oracle. the aggregate potential cap obligation as of may 31, 19 table of contents 2007 was $3.2 billion. unless the cap provisions are removed from these licensing arrangements, we do not expect the aggregate potential cap obligation to decline substantially until fiscal year 2008 when a significant number of these provisions begin to expire. the last cap obligation will expire on december 31, 2008. we have not recorded a liability related to the cap, as we do not believe it is probable that our post-acquisition activities related to the peoplesoft product line will trigger an obligation to make any payment pursuant to the cap. in addition, while no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of litigation, we believe we would also have substantial defenses with respect to the legality and enforceability of the cap contract provisions in response to any claims seeking payment from oracle under the cap terms. while we have taken extensive steps to assure customers that we intend to continue developing and supporting the peoplesoft and jd edwards product lines and as of may 31, 2007 we have not received any claims for cap payments, peoplesoft customers may assert claims for cap payments. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we previously negotiated three unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the irs from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. however, these agreements, which are effective for fiscal years through may 31, 2006, do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the united states. we have finalized one bilateral advance pricing agreement and currently are negotiating an additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from june 1, 2001 through may 31, 2008. there can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income tax exposures. there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of may 31, 2007, we had an aggregate of $6.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between 2009 and 2016 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value and liquidity of both our debt and equity securities. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 55 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest income rate risk. in the first quarter of fiscal 2007, we began designating newly acquired fixed income investments as available-for-sale. as a result of the available-for-sale designation, all securities purchased after may 31, 2006 are recorded on the balance sheet at fair market value. as of may 31, 2007, substantially all investments held are classified as available-for-sale. we generally purchase investments with relatively short maturities. therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our investments. auction rate securities are reported on the balance sheet at par value, which equals market value, as the rate on such securities re-sets generally every 7 to 28 days. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect our interest income that is generated from our investments. for fiscal 2007, total interest income was $295 million with investments yielding an average 3.97% on a worldwide basis. this interest rate level was up approximately 93 basis points from 3.04% for fiscal 2006. if overall interest rates fell by a similar amount (93 basis points) in fiscal 2008, our interest income would decline by approximately $70 million, assuming consistent investment levels. the table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances 55 table of contents and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2007. the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances approximate fair value at may 31, 2007: amortized weighted average (dollars in millions) principal amount interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 6,218 4.08% marketable securities 802 2.89% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 7,020 3.95% the following table includes the united states dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies. see discussion of our foreign currency risk below for a description of how we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. amortized principal amount at may 31, (in millions) 2007 euro $ 892 japanese yen 681 british pound 371 chinese renminbi 336 canadian dollar 237 australian dollar 218 south african rand 118 other currencies 1,359 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 4,212 interest expense rate risk. borrowings as of may 31, 2007 were $7.6 billion, consisting of $5.6 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $2.0 billion of variable rate borrowings. our variable rate borrowings were as follows at may 31, 2007: (dollars in millions) borrowings effective interest rate floating rate senior notes due may 2009 (1) $ 1,000 5.38% floating rate senior notes due may 2010 (1) 1,000 5.42% total borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations $ 2,000 (1) the 2009 and 2010 notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month libor plus 0.02% per year and 0.06% per year, respectively. interest expense for fiscal 2007 was $343 million. based on effective interest rates at may 31, 2007, a 50 basis point increase in interest rates on our borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations would increase our interest expense by approximately $17 million annually. foreign currency transaction risk. we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the forward contracts, to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. these foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions. our forward contracts generally have terms of 90 days or less. we do not use forward contracts for trading purposes. all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts (excluding our yen equity hedge described below) are marked to market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included in non-operating income, net. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. net foreign exchange transaction gains 56 table of contents (losses) included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $17 million, $15 million and $(28) million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the unrealized gains (losses) of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $5 million and $(0.3) million at may 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the tables below present the notional amounts (at contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates for the outstanding forward contracts as of may 31, 2007. notional weighted average exchange rates listed in the tables below are quoted using market conventions. all of our forward contracts mature within one year with the substantial majority maturing within 90 days or less as of may 31, 2007. tables of forward contracts: united states dollar foreign exchange contracts exchange exchange notional foreign currency u.s. dollars for weighted average for u.s. dollars foreign currency exchange rate (dollars in millions) (notional amount) (notional amount) (market convention) functional currency: australian dollar $ 11 $ 5 0.82 british pound 6 1.98 canadian dollar 30 7 1.07 chilean peso 3 526.10 chinese renminbi 177 7.57 columbian peso 6 1,925.00 indian rupee 29 123 45.82 israel shekel 4 4.01 japanese yen 25 120.22 korean won 18 926.90 mexican peso 7 10.84 new zealand dollar 4 0.72 philippine peso 14 46.12 saudi arabian riyal 32 3.75 singapore dollar 2 84 1.52 south african rand 12 7.19 taiwan dollar 4 32.79 thai baht 7 33.50 total $ 381 $ 229 57 table of contents euro foreign exchange contracts exchange exchange notional foreign currency euros for weighted average for euros foreign currency exchange rate (euros in millions) (notional amount) (notional amount) (market convention) functional currency: swiss franc 5 1.64 danish krone 3 7.45 british pound 42 0.68 indian rupee 4 54.31 israeli shekel 4 5.44 norwegian krone 4 8.11 polish zloty 5 3.83 saudi arabian riyal 3 5.07 slovakian koruna 1 34.08 swedish krona 5 9.26 united states dollar 19 1.35 south african rand 27 9.73 total 118 4 net investment risk. periodically, we hedge the net assets of certain international subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. we measure the effectiveness of net investment hedges by using the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial statements and better manages interest rate differentials between different countries. under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in stockholders equity to offset the translation results on the net investments. the remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion) is recognized in non-operating income, net. net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in stockholders equity prior to tax effects were $45 million, $23 million and $(23) million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. the net gain on investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were $28 million, $24 million and $14 million in fiscal 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. at may 31, 2007, we had one net investment hedge in japanese yen. the yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk arising from net assets held in yen as a result of equity capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary offering of oracle japan. the fair value of our yen investment hedge was $0.2 million at may 31, 2007 and 2006. as of may 31, 2007, the yen investment hedge has a notional amount of $548 million and an exchange rate of 120.22 yen for each united states dollar.risk factors 13 risk factors. when used in this report, the words expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after the date of this document. you should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the u.s. securities and exchange commission, including the quarterly reports on form 10-q to be filed by us in our 2009 fiscal year, which runs from june 1, 2008 to may 31, 2009. part i item 1. business general we are the world largest enterprise software company. we develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated software solutions that improve transactional efficiencies, adapt to an organization unique needs and allow better ways to access and manage information at a lower total cost of ownership. we seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets. we believe our internal or organic growth and continued innovation with respect to our core database, middleware and applications technologies provide the foundation for our long-term strategic plan. in fiscal 2008, we invested $2.7 billion on research and development to enhance our existing portfolio of products and services and to develop new products, features and services. an active acquisition program is another important element of our corporate strategy. over the last four fiscal years, we have invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of complementary companies, products, services and technologies such as bea systems, inc. in fiscal 2008, hyperion solutions corporation in fiscal 2007, siebel systems, inc. in fiscal 2006 and peoplesoft, inc. in fiscal 2005. we believe our acquisition program supports our long-term strategic direction, strengthens our competitive position, expands our customer base, provides greater scale to accelerate innovation, grows our revenues and earnings, and increases stockholder value. we expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. oracle corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in june 1977. software and services we are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) on demand and (3) education. our software and services businesses represented 80% and 20% of our total revenues, respectively, in both fiscal 2008 and 2006, and 79% and 21% of our total revenues, respectively, in fiscal 2007. see note 13 of notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information related to our operating segments. 1 table of contents software business new software licenses new software licenses include the licensing of database and middleware software, which consists of oracle databases and oracle fusion middleware, as well as applications software. our technology and business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of interconnected databases, application servers, as well as mobile devices. this architecture enables users to access business data and applications through a web browser interface, while providing customers the most efficient and cost effective method of managing business information and applications. in an internet model, database servers manage and protect the underlying business information, while application servers run the business applications that automate a myriad of business functions. we have focused on concepts such as global single instance application deployment that involve fewer, high quality databases of important business information. our architecture provides high quality business information and can be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. oracle technology operates on both single server and clustered server configurations, which we refer to as grid software, and supports a choice of operating systems including linux, windows and unix. new software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software license updates and product support. the standard end user software license agreement for our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other metrics. we also have other types of software license agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license term. new software license revenues represented 34%, 33% and 34% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. database and middleware software our database and middleware software provides a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for mid-size businesses and large global enterprises. with an increasing focus by enterprises on reducing their total cost of information technology (it) infrastructure, our software is designed to accommodate demanding, non-stop business environments, using clusters of low cost servers and storage that can incrementally scale as required. the ability to assign computing resources as required simplifies our customers computing capacity, planning and procurement in order to support all of their business applications. with an oracle grid infrastructure, our customers can lower their investment in it hardware, reduce their risk of it infrastructure downtime and more easily cope with sudden increases in demand on their it environments during high traffic periods. new software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 68%, 71% and 73% of our new software license revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. databases as the world most popular database, oracle database enables the secure storage, retrieval and manipulation of all forms of data, including business application and analytics data, and unstructured data in the form of xml files, office documents, images, video and spatial data. designed for enterprise grid computing, the oracle database is available in four editions: express edition, standard edition one, standard edition and enterprise edition. all editions are built using the same underlying code, which means that our database software can easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor servers. options to oracle database enterprise edition are available to meet specific requirements in the areas of performance and scalability, high availability, data security and compliance, data warehousing, unstructured data integration and systems management. examples of these options include: oracle real application clusters, which consolidates a single, scalable and fault tolerant database that is shared across interconnected clusters of servers; oracle partitioning, which breaks down large transaction processing and business intelligence database tables into smaller segments for faster query performance and easier management of data throughout its lifecycle; 2 table of contents oracle warehouse builder enterprise and data quality options, which help customers design, build and populate data warehouses with reliable, quality information from a variety of legacy repositories; and oracle in-memory database cache, a new option that improves application performance by caching or storing performance critical parts of oracle database in the main memory of the application tier. in addition to the four editions of oracle database, oracle also offers a selection of specialized databases: oracle timesten in-memory database, which is a memory-optimized relational database that delivers low latency and high throughput for applications requiring real-time performance; oracle berkeley db, which is a family of open source, embeddable, non-relational databases that allows developers to incorporate a fast, scalable and reliable database engine within their applications; and oracle database lite, which is a comprehensive solution for developing, deploying and managing applications for mobile and embedded environments. it consists of a small footprint relational database that runs on many devices and platforms, a mobile server that synchronizes data between the mobile devices and oracle database, and mobile application development tools. we also offer products that are complementary to our database product offerings, including oracle enterprise manager and oracle audit vault. enterprise manager oracle enterprise manager is designed to deliver top-down applications and software infrastructure management. our customers use oracle enterprise manager to monitor and manage their applications and underlying software infrastructure, including both oracle and non-oracle infrastructure products. oracle enterprise manager can be used to manage packaged applications, such as siebel, peoplesoft, oracle e-business suite or custom applications including service-oriented architecture applications. in addition to managing oracle software infrastructure products including the oracle database and oracle fusion middleware, oracle enterprise manager also supports our recently acquired bea web logic server middleware product and other third-party infrastructure products. oracle enterprise manager is designed to monitor service levels and performance, automate tasks, manage configuration information, and provide change management in a unified way across groups of computers or grids. oracle enterprise manager provisioning automates the discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and allows it administrators to apply patches without taking their system down. additionally, it administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an html browser or through wireless pdas. audit vault oracle audit vault reduces the cost and complexity of compliance reporting and of detection of unauthorized activities by automating the collection and consolidation of enterprise audit data. oracle database provides one of the most advanced auditing capabilities of any database management system. with audit vault, security and database administrators can manage audit policies across their enterprise and automatically collect audit data into a centralized, tamper resistant repository. this secure repository is built on oracle scalable architecture to allow retention and aggregation of terabytes of audit data for analysis and reporting. audit vault analyzes audit data in real-time based upon enterprise defined policies, issues alerts for unauthorized activities, and provides built-in reports for demonstrating the it controls required to comply with internal control assessments, including provisions of the u.s. sarbanes-oxley act and other data privacy and protection regulations. middleware oracle fusion middleware is a broad product family that forms a reliable and scalable foundation on which customers can build, deploy and integrate business applications and automate their business processes. oracle fusion middleware includes: oracle application server; oracle business intelligence suite; oracle identity and access management suite; 3 table of contents oracle enterprise content management suite; oracle webcenter; oracle jdeveloper and oracle service-oriented architecture suite; and oracle data integration suite. oracle fusion middleware is designed to protect customers it investments and work with both oracle and non-oracle database, middleware and applications products through its hot-pluggable architecture (which enables customers to easily install and use oracle fusion middleware products within their existing it environments) and adherence to industry standards such as j2ee and business process execution language (bpel). by using oracle fusion middleware, our customers increase their capacity to adapt to business changes rapidly, reduce their risks related to security and compliance, increase user productivity and drive better business decisions. specifically, oracle fusion middleware enables customers to easily integrate heterogeneous business applications, automate business processes, simplify security and compliance, manage lifecycles of documents and get actionable, targeted business intelligence, while continuing to utilize their existing it systems. in addition, oracle fusion middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, which allows developers to build and deploy web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications. oracle fusion middleware is used to support oracle applications, as well as other enterprise applications and independent software vendors that build their own custom applications. on april 29, 2008, we acquired bea, a leading provider of enterprise application and service infrastructure software solutions. our acquisition of bea further strengthened our leading technology in certain product areas within oracle fusion middleware such as java application server (weblogic server), transaction processing (tuxedo), portal and enterprise 2.0 capabilities, service-oriented architecture, it governance and business process management. our acquisition of bea also increased the number of java developers building applications for our middleware products. additionally, bea business is complementary to other product areas within oracle fusion middleware such as identity management, business intelligence and enterprise content management. application server the foundation of oracle fusion middleware is oracle application server. designed for grid computing, oracle application server incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. oracle application server also provides a complete integration platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business, application and data integration projects. our recent acquisition of bea enables us to provide our customers with additional open-standards java-based application infrastructure products such as weblogic server and scalable messaging and transaction processing platform products such as tuxedo. business intelligence oracle business intelligence (bi) provides visibility into how customers businesses are performing and helps them plan and model to improve that performance. bi is a portfolio of technology and applications that provides an integrated end-to-end system called enterprise performance management (epm) that unites our bi foundation and data warehousing products with our bi and epm applications (described further below) to offer our customers an enterprise-wide business intelligence platform. our bi foundation products include oracle bi suite enterprise edition plus, oracle bi standard edition one, hyperion essbase and oracle bi publisher. our bi foundation products deliver customers a comprehensive set of business intelligence tools, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc query and analysis, proactive detection and alerts, advanced reporting and publishing, real-time predictive intelligence, mobile analytics and desktop gadgets. our data warehousing products enable the extraction, transformation and loading of quality data in order for that data to be accurately searched and analyzed. 4 table of contents identity and access management suite the oracle identity and access management suite makes it easier for our customers to manage multiple user identities, provision users in multiple enterprise applications and systems and manage access privileges for customers, employees and partners. our customers use oracle identity and access management suite to secure their information from potential threats. in addition, our customers also use oracle identity and access management suite to increase compliance levels, while lowering the total cost of their compliance efforts. enterprise content management suite unstructured information, which is data that is not easily readable or has not been stored so that it can be used efficiently, makes up a large portion of all the information residing in most businesses and public sector entities. oracle enterprise content management suite provides a comprehensive set of capabilities to create, capture, publish, share and collaborate on, archive, retain, manage business process flows and manage information access rights to documents and other unstructured content file types. oracle enterprise content management suite supports an extensive set of document and image formats. our web content management product capabilities also enable customers to use external facing websites as strategic marketing assets and rapid communications channels. webcenter oracle webcenter enables personalized, task-oriented web applications and portal sites to be rapidly developed and deployed, all with single sign-on access and security. our customers can assemble portal sites using page regions or portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide access to web-based resources such as applications, business intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced software services. oracle webcenter also includes integrated enterprise 2.0 capabilities, which enable customers to work together in teams via the internet and capitalize on collective intelligence within their enterprise and with their partners and customers. jdeveloper oracle jdeveloper is an integrated software development environment designed to facilitate rapid development of java applications, portlets, web services, process models and rich internet applications (ria) such as flash and ajax, among others. oracle jdeveloper provides a comprehensive java development environment for modeling, building, debugging and testing enterprise-class j2ee applications and web services. it is also integrated with the oracle application development framework, which provides a framework for building applications, including a set of components that enable developers to build ria based on java user interface standards and deploy the applications to take advantage of modern ria technologies. service-oriented architecture suite service-oriented architecture (soa) is an information technology strategy which allows users to interface with internet-based portals and composite applications, which in turn interface with several enterprise applications. oracle soa suite is a complete set of service infrastructure components for creating, deploying, and managing soas, including oracle jdeveloper, oracle bpel process manager, oracle web services manager, oracle business rules, oracle business activity monitoring, and oracle enterprise service bus. oracle soa suite enables services to be created, managed and orchestrated into composite applications and reconfigurable business processes, reducing development time and costs and increasing flexibility and response time. oracle soa suite is hot-pluggable , enabling customers to easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing investments. data integration suite through oracle data integration suite, we offer best-of-breed and unified data integration technologies that enable customers to build, deploy and manage enterprise business data. our data integration foundation allows enterprise data architects to unify, manage, replicate, migrate and distribute data into enterprise applications and orchestrated business processes. with our open and hot-pluggable data integration components, organizations can continue to 5 table of contents use and evolve their it infrastructure instead of replacing it. the data integration suite can extract data from one system and load it into another (such as a data warehouse) and then rapidly transform the data into a new format. it also includes technology to address data quality and data profiling. applications software our applications software strategy is designed to provide customers with complete, integrated and open solutions for industry business process automation, supported by a robust, standards-based technology platform. central to that strategy is our commitment to offer customers that purchase software license updates and product support contracts a choice as to when they wish to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own. until our customers reach a decision to upgrade to the next generation of the products they own, we protect their investments in their applications by offering them the ability to purchase software license updates and product support contracts for their existing products. new technologies such as oracle fusion middleware, oracle business intelligence suite, and oracle webcenter are designed to help customers extend the benefits of their it investments in our applications, to reduce their investment risk, and to support their evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that best fits their needs. our applications software products combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as role-based analytics, secure search, identity management, self-service and workflow to deliver adaptive industry processes, business intelligence and insights, and optimal end-user productivity. our applications software products enable efficient management of all core business functions, including: customer relationship management (crm) enterprise performance management (epm) enterprise resource planning (erp) product lifecycle management (plm), and industry-specific applications. our applications software products are offered as integrated suites or available on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures that are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. our applications are available in multiple languages, and support a broad range of location specific requirements, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements. oracle application integration architecture provides an open, standards-based framework for creating adaptable, cross-application business processes. for customers looking to quickly deploy integrations between oracle applications, oracle application integration architecture also offers packaged integrations, allowing for rapid implementation of mission-critical business applications. customer relationship management (crm) we offer a complete set of crm applications that manage all of the business processes and associated systems that touch a customer, including: billing and delivery; sales solutions that provide a single repository for customer and supply chain information; and service solutions that increase customer satisfaction by providing visibility into customer billing and order information. enterprise performance management (epm) we offer a full spectrum of epm applications that are open, industry-specific analytic applications with capabilities such as interactive dashboarding and embedded analytic functionality for delivering insight across the enterprise. our business analytics solution is tailored to 20 industries, giving customers the ability to monitor, analyze and act upon business intelligence while providing end-to-end visibility into a customer operations and financial performance. with our acquisition of hyperion in fiscal 2007, we added complementary products to our business 6 table of contents intelligence offerings, including a leading open enterprise planning system, financial consolidation products, and a multi-source olap server. our acquisition of hyperion combined with our bi analytics, bi foundation and data warehousing products enable us to offer our customers an integrated, end-to-end epm system that spans planning, consolidation, operational analytic applications, business intelligence tools, reporting and data integration, all on a unified business intelligence platform. enterprise resource planning (erp) companies use our erp applications to automate and integrate a variety of their key global business processes, including: manufacturing, order entry, accounts receivable and payable, general ledger, purchasing, warehousing, transportation and human resources. our erp applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and self-service applications in order to enable companies to lower the cost of their business operations by providing their customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet access to both transaction processing and critical business information. our erp applications are available in multiple languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements. product lifecycle management (plm) with our acquisition of agile software corporation in the first quarter of fiscal 2008, we added plm software solutions. our plm solutions manage the product innovation and introduction process in a variety of industries, including high technology, life sciences, industrial manufacturing and consumer packaged goods. our plm solutions help customers make better product portfolio decisions, collaborate across design and supply chain partners, accelerate new product introduction and manage compliance. industry applications our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. as a part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries. with our acquisition of siebel, we gained expertise in the vertical markets in which siebel offered industry solutions. we have also expanded our offerings in a number of other key industries we view as strategic to our future growth: retail, with our acquisitions of retek, inc., profitlogic, inc. and several other companies; banking and financial services, with our acquisition of i-flex solutions limited; communications, with our acquisitions of portal software, inc. and metasolv, inc.; and utilities, with our acquisition of lodestar corporation and spl worldgroup, inc. these acquired industry applications are in addition to industry applications we developed for health sciences, insurance, manufacturing, education, professional services and the public sector. we are currently building oracle fusion applications, which are being designed to unify best-of-business capabilities from all oracle applications in a complete suite. we believe this suite of applications will deliver a superior ownership experience through improved usability, adaptive business process automation, built-in business intelligence and industry-specific capabilities. new software license revenues from applications software represented 32%, 29% and 27% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. software license updates and product support we seek to protect and enhance our customers current investments in oracle technology and applications by offering lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades and maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period. product support includes internet and telephone access to technical support personnel located in our global support centers, as well as internet access to technical content. software license updates and product 7 table of contents support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license fees. substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. in addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. we also offer oracle unbreakable linux support, which provides enterprise level support for the linux operating system and, in fiscal 2008, we introduced support for oracle vm server virtualization software. our software license updates and product support revenues represented 46% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. services business consulting oracle consulting assists our customers in successfully deploying our applications and technology products. our consulting services include business strategy and analysis; business process optimization; product implementation, enhancements, and upgrades; and ongoing managed services. these services help our customers achieve measurable business results, manage their total cost of ownership and reduce their deployment risk. oracle consulting deploys professionals globally utilizing our blended delivery capabilities, including use of onsite consultants and personnel from our global delivery centers and applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale for our customers. consulting revenues represented 15%, 16% and 15% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. on demand on demand includes oracle on demand, crm on demand and advanced customer services. oracle on demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management, and maintenance services for customers that deploy over the internet our database, middleware and applications software delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers or at customer facilities. crm on demand is a service offering that provides our customers with our crm software functionality delivered via a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. advanced customer services consists of solution support centers, business critical assistance, technical account management, expert services, configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on-site technical services. on demand revenues represented 3% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. education we provide training to customers, partners and employees as a part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our technology around the world. we currently offer thousands of courses covering all of our product offerings. our training is provided primarily through public and private instructor-led classroom events, but is also made available through a variety of online courses and self paced media training on cd-roms. in addition, we also offer a certification program certifying database administrators, developers and implementers. oracle university also offers user adoption services designed to provide comprehensive training services to help customers get the most out of their investment in oracle. our acquisition of bea further enhanced our educational offerings in middleware. education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006. marketing and sales sales distribution channels we directly market and sell our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. in the united states our sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the united states. outside the united states, our international subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partnernetwork. the oracle partnernetwork is a global program that 8 table of contents manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. by offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the oracle partnernetwork program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. international markets we sell our products and provide services globally. our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a global workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for our products. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 13 of notes to consolidated financial statements. seasonality and cyclicality our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services, as our revenues are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. general economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. the markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues. see selected quarterly financial data in item 7 of this annual report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues and expenses. customers our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. no single customer accounted for 10% or more of revenues in fiscal 2008, 2007 or 2006. competition the enterprise software industry is highly fragmented, intensely competitive and evolving rapidly. we compete in various segments of this industry including, but not limited to: database software; middleware (including application server, business intelligence, application integration, content management, portal server and identity management); collaboration; development tools; enterprise applications; software as a service; hosted and on demand solutions; operating systems; virtualization software; and consulting/systems integration. total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, functionality, ease of use, open standards-compliance, product reliability, service-oriented architecture, security and quality of technical support are key competitive factors in each of the areas in which we compete. our customers are also demanding less complexity and lower cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings (database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a stack of software designed to work together. 9 table of contents our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus our competitors products) are also affected by the broader platform competition between industry standard java (j2ee) by sun microsystems, inc. (sun microsystems) and microsoft corporation .net programming environments and by operating system competition among microsoft windows server, unix (sun microsystem solaris, hewlett packard company (hp)-ux and international business machines corporation (ibm)-aix) and linux. open source alternatives to commercial software are also impacting the competitive environment. these products are typically offered free of charge and are readily available over the internet. finally, software-as-a-service (saas) offerings continue to alter the competitive landscape. the following lists of competitors are necessarily incomplete due to the nature of the enterprise software industry. the competitive landscape is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand, are acquired and otherwise change. in the sale of database software, scalability, reliability, availability and security are key competitive differentiators for us. our competitors include ibm, microsoft, sybase, inc., ncr corporation teradata division, sas institute, inc., informatica corporation, and the open source databases such as mysql (recently acquired by sun microsystems) and postgresql, among others. our ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database product offerings has enabled us to maintain our leading position in database software over our competitors. in the sale of middleware products, our offerings include application server, business intelligence, application integration, business process management, service-oriented architecture, collaboration and content management, portal, and identity management software. our ability to offer a full range of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a key competitive differentiator. our competitors include ibm, microsoft, sap ag, sun microsystems, progress software, fujitsu software corporation, hitachi software engineering co., ltd., open source vendors such as red hat, inc. (jboss), apache geronimo, and netezza corporation, as well as several other competitors in each element of our packaged functions such as tibco software, inc., software ag, savvion, inc., microstrategy, inc., ca, inc., informatica, novell, inc., lombardi software, inc. and pegasystems, inc., among others. our middleware solutions have experienced rapid growth in recent years relative to our competitors. in the sale of collaboration and content management products, we compete with microsoft, ibm (domino/notes/filenet), emc corporation (documentum), open text corporation, interwoven, inc., hp (tower software) and vignette corporation, among others. in the sale of development tools, ease of use, standards-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated code generation) are key competitive differentiators. we compete against ibm (websphere studio), microsoft (visualstudio.net), sun microsystems (sun studio), sybase (powerbuilder) and others, including eclipse foundation, inc. (eclipse), an open source vendor. the success of our development tools is closely related to the relative popularity of our platform (database and middleware) compared to our competitors as well as the larger competition between java and microsoft .net. the sale of applications software, in particular, is changing rapidly due to the development and deployment of service-oriented architectures and web services, application integration middleware as well as software as a service offerings. as a result of our acquisitions of peoplesoft and siebel, we currently offer several product lines that are suited for different needs of customers in different industries. one of the main competitive differentiators in applications software is our ability to combine best-of-breed software, suite software and our application integration architecture, while shielding the end user from complexities. we compete against sap ag, lawson software, inc., infor global solutions gmbh (ssa global technologies, extensity), microsoft dynamics (dynamics gp, dynamics nav, dynamics crm, dynamics snap, dynamics sl), sage, inc., and ibm (maximo, mor software, ascential software) as well as many other application providers and point solution providers. we also provide applications specific to operations in particular industry verticals, such as retailing, financial services, communications, tax and utilities, health sciences, public sector and others. these applications are distinguished from enterprise resource planning (erp) or customer relationship management (crm) in that these industry-specific applications are focused on and limited to particular industry segments, as opposed to being designed for broad distribution across several industries. we typically compete with commercial software vendors pre-packaged applications, applications developed in-house by customers, applications which were custom developed by other software vendors and applications consisting of discrete pieces of functionality from multiple 10 table of contents providers which have been customized and implemented by systems integrators. in some of these industries, complete industry solutions either do not exist or are addressed by dozens of software participants. with service-oriented architecture, our packaged applications also compete with custom solutions developed either in-house or by large systems integrators such as accenture ltd. or ibm global services. our applications also compete against business process outsourcers including automatic data processing, inc., fidelity investments, ceridian corporation, hewitt-cyborg limited and others. in the sale of operating systems, we introduced a support and service offering for red hat open source linux operating system in fiscal 2007. this placed us in competition with others who offer support for the linux operating system, including red hat, novell and canonical ltd. (ubuntu); with ibm, sun microsystems, hp and others in the sale of unix operating systems; and with microsoft in the sale of windows server operating systems. in the sale of virtualization products, we compete with vmware, inc., ibm, microsoft, sun microsystems and citrix systems, inc., among others, including other vendors of open source virtualization products. in the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we both partner with and compete against accenture, electronic data systems corporation (to be acquired by hp), ibm global services, bearing point, inc., capgemini group, and many others (both large and small). in the sale of many of our products, we also compete with products and features developed internally by customers and their it staff. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have acquired technology through business acquisitions. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $2.7 billion, $2.2 billion and $1.9 billion, or 12%, 12% and 13% of total revenues, in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. as a percentage of new software license revenues, research and development expenditures were 36%, 37% and 38% in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software markets in which we compete. we plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings including our database, middleware and applications software products. employees as of may 31, 2008, we employed 84,233 full-time employees, including 19,465 in sales and marketing, 7,642 in software license updates and product support, 28,215 in services, 20,607 in research and development and 8,304 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, 28,079 were located in the united states and 56,154 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain international subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. 11 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director charles e. phillips, jr. president and director keith g. block executive vice president, north america sales and consulting sergio giacoletto executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa sales and consulting juergen rottler executive vice president, oracle customer services charles a. rozwat executive vice president, product development derek h. williams executive vice president, japan sales and consulting dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 63, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 63, has served as the chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as an executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. he also serves as a director of callwave, inc. ms. catz, 46, has been chief financial officer since november 2005 and a president since january 2004. she has served as a director since october 2001. she was interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. she served as an executive vice president from november 1999 to january 2004 and senior vice president from april 1999 to october 1999. she also serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. phillips, 49, has been a president and has served as a director since january 2004. he served as executive vice president, strategy, partnerships, and business development, from may 2003 to january 2004. he also serves as a director of morgan stanley and viacom, inc. mr. block, 47, has been executive vice president, north america sales and consulting since september 2002 and executive vice president, north america consulting since february 2002. he served as senior vice president of north america commercial consulting and global service lines from june 1999 until january 2002. he served as senior vice president of the commercial consulting practice from april 1999 until may 1999. mr. block was group vice president, east consulting from june 1997 until march 1999. mr. giacoletto, 58, has been executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa sales and consulting since june 2000 and served as senior vice president, business solutions from november 1998 to june 2000. he was vice president, alliances and technology from march 1997 to november 1998. before joining us, he had been president of at t solutions for europe since august 1994. mr. rottler, 41, has been executive vice president, oracle customer services since september 2006. he was executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand, from january 2005 to september 2006 and was executive vice president, oracle on demand, from september 2004 to january 2005. prior to joining us, he served as senior vice president, public sector, customer solutions group at hewlett-packard company (hp), from december 2003 to september 2004, where he was responsible for hp worldwide public sector, health and education business. he also held various other global and regional executive positions in hp services and software business units since 1997. mr. rozwat, 60, has been executive vice president, product development, since october 2007. he served as executive vice president, server technologies from november 1999 to october 2007 and served as senior vice president, database server from december 1996 to october 1999. he served as vice president of development from december 1994 to november 1996. 12 table of contents mr. williams, 63, has been executive vice president, japan sales and consulting since june 2008 and was executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting from october 2000 to may 2008. he served as senior vice president, asia pacific from july 1993 to october 2000 and as vice president, asia pacific from april 1991 to july 1993. he joined oracle united kingdom in october 1988 and served as regional director, strategic accounts from october 1988 to april 1991. ms. daley, 49, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004, and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she joined oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 46, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. prior to joining us, he served as intuit inc. director of accounting from august 2005 to march 2007, as the gap, inc. assistant controller from april 2005 to august 2005, and as vice president, finance, at cadence design systems, inc. product business from june 2001 to april 2005. he also spent 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in item 7, highlights some of these risks. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; the overall demand for enterprise software and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. a general weakening of, or declining corporate confidence in, the global economy, or a curtailment in government or corporate spending could delay or decrease customer purchases. in addition, the war on terrorism, the war in iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of software licenses and related services and, to a lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for one or two quarters following the acquisition, and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate. 13 table of contents a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. because our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software license transactions also increases the risk of fluctuation in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly new software licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software market in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or renew software license updates and product support. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we are developing a next generation applications platform called oracle fusion applications that is planned to combine the best features, flows and usability traits of our existing and acquired applications. we have also announced that we intend to extend the life of many of our acquired applications and will continue to provide long-term support for our acquired products, both of which require us to dedicate resources. if we do not develop and release these new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired application lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. in the past four fiscal years, we have invested billions of dollars, including $9.4 billion in fiscal 2008, to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, or we may pay more than the acquired company or assets are worth; our due diligence process may fail to identify all of the problems, liabilities or other shortcomings or challenges of an acquired company or technology, including issues with the company intellectual property, product quality or product architecture, revenue recognition or other accounting practices or employee, customer or partner issues; we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our integration activities; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may assume pre-existing contractual relationships of acquired companies that we would not have otherwise entered into, and exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to us or disruptive to customers; we may face litigation or other claims in connection with, or may inherit claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including claims from terminated employees, customers, former stockholders or other third parties; 14 table of contents our relationship with current and new employees, customers, partners and distributors could be impaired; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple and overlapping product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; we may assume pre-existing liabilities, whether known or unknown, of acquired companies which could be material; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if it all, which could, among other things, prevent us from completing a transaction; we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions; and to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement, or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the functionality of products overlap; the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the software industry; and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; 15 table of contents divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. specific patent infringement cases are discussed under note 15 in notes to consolidated financial statements. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees. our competitors may offer lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our new software license revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including software-as-a-service (saas) providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases or lower spending. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we may be unable to compete effectively within the highly competitive software industry. many vendors develop and market databases, internet application server products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our offerings. in addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing (bpo) as a competitive alternative to buying software and customer interest in bpo solutions is increasing. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer bpo solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company net tangible assets, intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their values as of the date of the 16 table of contents acquisition (including certain assets and liabilities that are recorded at fair value) and record the excess of the purchase price over those values as goodwill. management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of assumed contingent liabilities after we finalize the purchase price allocation period; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain oracle pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure; and charges to our operating results resulting from revised estimates to restructure an acquired company operations after we finalize the purchase price allocation period. routine charges to our operating results associated with acquisitions include amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and development as well as other acquisition related charges, restructuring and stock-based compensation associated with assumed stock awards. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. see item 7. management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations supplemental disclosure related to certain charges and gains for additional information about charges to earnings associated with our recent acquisitions. we expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with combining the operations of our acquired companies, which may be substantial. additional costs may include costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated stock-based compensation expenses and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes, and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. in december 2007, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued statement no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations (see note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements for a summary of statement 141(r)). statement 141(r) is effective for us beginning in fiscal 2010. we are in the process of evaluating the impact of the pending adoption of statement 141(r) on our consolidated financial statements. we currently believe that the adoption of statement 141(r) will result in the recognition of certain types of expenses in our results of operations that we currently capitalize pursuant to existing accounting standards and may also impact our financial statements in other ways. we may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we may lose key employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues which may affect our employee retention efforts and/or increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. 17 table of contents part of our total compensation program includes stock options. stock options are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include the reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software development, sales, customer support, consulting, on demand and shared administrative service centers. we are subject to a variety of risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; regulatory changes; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; fluctuations in currency exchange rates; difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. in addition, compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, export requirements, u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. as the majority shareholder of i-flex solutions limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. our revenues and operating results have recently been favorably affected by the weakening u.s. dollar relative to other major foreign currencies. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies. 18 table of contents our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we continue to rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. oracle on demand and crm on demand may not be successful. we offer oracle on demand outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered either at our data center facilities, at select partner data centers or at customer facilities. we also offer crm on demand, which is a subscription service offering that provides our customers with our crm software functionality delivered via a hosted, web-based solution that we manage. these business models continue to evolve and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or develop them into profitable businesses. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our oracle on demand and crm on demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. these businesses are subject to a variety of risks including: demand for these services may not meet our expectations; we may not be able to operate these businesses at an acceptable profit level; we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through oracle on demand and crm on demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information; we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance, as well as workforce reduction claims as a result of customers transferring their it functions to us; the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services; demand for these services may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks, international transfers of data, government or other third-party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and our offerings may require large fixed costs such as for data centers, computers, network infrastructure and security and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings. we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, oracle on demand, crm on demand and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business operations. end users, who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. in addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves 19 table of contents a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years if at all. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the united states government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the united states congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our on demand offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of may 31, 2008, we had an aggregate of $11.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between 2009 and 2038, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 15 in notes to consolidated financial statements. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we previously negotiated three unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs 20 table of contents that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the irs from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. these agreements are effective for fiscal years through may 31, 2006. we have submitted to the irs a request for renewal of this advance pricing agreement for the years ending may 31, 2007 through may 31, 2011. however, these agreements do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the united states. we have finalized one bilateral advance pricing agreement, which was effective for the years ending may 31, 2002 through may 31, 2006 and we have submitted a renewal for the years ending may 31, 2007 through may 31, 2011. we currently are negotiating an additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from june 1, 2001 through may 31, 2008. there can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures. peoplesoft customer assurance program may expose us to substantial liabilities if triggered. in june 2003, in response to our tender offer, peoplesoft implemented what it referred to as the customer assurance program or cap . the cap incorporated a provision in peoplesoft standard licensing arrangement that purports to contractually burden us, as a result of our acquisition of peoplesoft, with a contingent obligation to make payments to peoplesoft customers should we fail to take certain business actions for a fixed period of time after this acquisition. the payment obligation, which typically expires four years from the date of the contract, is fixed at an amount generally between two and five times the license and first year support fees paid to peoplesoft in the applicable license transaction. we concluded that, as of the date of the peoplesoft acquisition, the penalty provisions under the cap represented a contingent liability of ours. the aggregate potential cap obligation as of may 31, 2008 was $1.9 billion. some of the cap provisions have expired or have been removed from these license arrangements. we expect the significant majority of the remaining cap provisions to expire by the end of calendar 2008. while we have taken extensive steps to assure customers that we intend to continue developing and supporting the peoplesoft and jd edwards product lines and, as of may 31, 2008, we have not received any claims for cap payments, peoplesoft customers may assert claims for cap payments. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 56 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest rate risk: we generally purchase debt security investments with relatively short maturities (see a description of our debt securities held in the liquidity and capital resources section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations presented above). therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our investments. for fiscal 2008, total interest income was $337 million with investments yielding an average 3.44% on a worldwide basis. this interest rate level was down by 53 basis points from 3.97% for fiscal 2007. if overall interest rates fell by 100 basis points from our average of 3.44% during fiscal 2008, our annual interest income would decline by approximately $95 million, assuming consistent investment levels. the table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2008. the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are recorded at their fair values at may 31, 2008. fair value of available-for-sale weighted average (dollars in millions) securities interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 8,262 2.35% marketable securities 2,781 2.71% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 11,043 2.44% 56 table of contents the following table includes the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies. see discussion of our foreign currency risk below for a description of how we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. u.s. dollar equivalent at (in millions) may 31, 2008 euro $ 1,941 japanese yen 801 british pound 705 chinese renminbi 477 indian rupee 357 canadian dollar 275 australian dollar 258 other foreign currencies 1,629 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 6,443 our borrowings as of may 31, 2008 were $11.2 billion, consisting of $9.2 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $2.0 billion of variable rate borrowings. our variable rate borrowings were as follows at may 31, 2008: (dollars in millions) borrowings interest rate floating rate senior notes due may 2009 (1) $ 1,000 2.70% floating rate senior notes due may 2010 (1) 1,000 2.74% total borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations $ 2,000 (1) the 2009 and 2010 notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month libor plus 0.02% per year and 0.06% per year, respectively. in september 2007, we entered into two interest-rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the variable interest obligations associated with our floating rate senior notes due may 2009 and may 2010 so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively becomes fixed at a rate of 4.62% and 4.59%, respectively. the critical terms of the interest rate swap agreements and the senior notes that the swap agreements pertain to match, including the notional amounts, interest rate reset dates, maturity dates and underlying market indices. the fair values of the aforementioned interest rate swaps totaled an unrealized loss of $24 million, net of tax effects, at may 31, 2008. we are accounting for these swaps as hedges pursuant to fasb statement no. 133, accounting for derivative instruments and hedging activities . the unrealized losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income and the corresponding fair value payables are included in other current and long-term liabilities in our condensed consolidated balance sheet. foreign currency transaction risk: we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts that we enter into to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. these foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions. our forward contracts generally have terms of 90 days or less. we do not use forward contracts for trading purposes. all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts are marked to market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses resulting from fair value changes included in non-operating income, net (the effective portion of our yen equity hedge described below is included in stockholders equity). our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. net foreign exchange transaction gains included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $17 million, $17 million and $15 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. the net unrealized gains of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were $3 million and $5 million at may 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. the tables below present the notional amounts (at contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates for our outstanding forward contracts as of may 31, 2008 and exclude our net 57 table of contents investment hedge contract described further below. notional weighted average exchange rates listed in the tables below are quoted using market conventions. all of our forward contracts mature within one year with the substantial majority maturing within 90 days as of may 31, 2008. tables of forward contracts united states dollar foreign exchange contracts exchange exchange notional foreign currency u.s. dollars for weighted average for u.s. dollars foreign currency exchange rate (dollars in millions) (notional amount) (notional amount) (market convention) functional currency: australian dollar $ $ 49 0.95 british pound 11 1.97 canadian dollar 80 0.99 chilean peso 6 483.80 chinese renminbi 330 6.89 columbian peso 18 1,806.15 danish krone 2 4.80 european euro 3 1.56 indian rupee 112 112 41.89 japanese yen 32 104.12 korean won 61 1,038.50 mexican peso 8 10.48 norwegian krone 2 5.09 peruvian new sol 5 1 2.84 philippine peso 20 45.00 polish zloty 5 8 2.19 saudi arabian riyal 32 3.74 singapore dollar 127 1.36 south african rand 33 7.89 taiwan dollar 13 30.36 thai baht 12 32.63 total $ 694 $ 388 58 table of contents european euro foreign exchange contracts exchange exchange notional foreign currency euros for weighted average for euros foreign currency exchange rate (euros in millions) (notional amount) (notional amount) (market convention) functional currency: british pound 33 0.79 danish krone 3 7.46 indian rupee 4 60.66 israeli shekel 2 5.15 norwegian krone 4 7.91 polish zloty 7 3.41 saudi arabian riyal 2 5.86 slovakian koruna 1 30.70 south african rand 22 12.33 swedish krona 6 9.35 swiss franc 7 1.62 united states dollar 16 1.56 total 103 4 net investment risk: we hedge the net assets of certain of our international subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. we measure the effectiveness of our net investment hedges by using the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial statements and better manages interest rate differentials between different countries. under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in stockholders equity to offset the translation results on the net investments. the remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the excluded portion and the ineffective portion, if any) is recognized in non-operating income, net. net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in stockholders equity, net of tax effects, were $(53) million, $28 million and $14 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. net gains on investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were $23 million, $28 million and $24 million in fiscal 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. at may 31, 2008, we had one net investment hedge in japanese yen. the yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk arising from net assets held in yen as a result of equity capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary offering of our majority owned subsidiary, oracle japan. the fair value of our yen investment hedge was nominal at may 31, 2008 and 2007. as of may 31, 2008, the yen investment hedge had a notional amount of $633 million and an exchange rate of 104.32 yen for each u.s. dollar.risk factors 12 risk factors. when used in this report, the words expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, seeks, estimates and similar expressions are generally intended to identify forward-looking statements. you should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which reflect our opinions only as of the date of this annual report. we undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements after the date of this document. you should carefully review the risk factors described in other documents we file from time to time with the securities and exchange commission, including the quarterly reports on form 10-q to be filed by us in our 2007 fiscal year, which runs from june 1, 2006 to may 31, 2007. part i item 1. business general we are the world largest enterprise software company. we develop, manufacture, market, distribute and service database and middleware software as well as applications software designed to help our customers manage and grow their business operations. our goal is to offer customers scalable, reliable, secure and integrated database, middleware and applications software that provides transactional efficiencies, adapts to an organization unique needs and allows better ways to access and manage information at a low total cost of ownership. we seek to be an industry leader in each of the specific product categories in which we compete and to expand into new and emerging markets. in fiscal 2006, we focused on strengthening our market position and enhancing our existing portfolio of products and services as well as acquiring and integrating businesses that we believe will improve our competitive position, expand our customer base, provide greater scale to increase our research and development and accelerate innovation. an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. in the last two years, we have paid an aggregate of $19.5 billion for our acquisitions, including peoplesoft, inc. and siebel systems, inc. our planned legal-entity mergers, information system conversions and integration related to these acquisitions are substantially complete. we expect to complete all other planned integration activities in the next three months. we expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. oracle corporation was incorporated in 2005 as a delaware corporation and is the successor to operations originally begun in june 1977. the corporate entity structure was reorganized in january 2006 in connection with our acquisition of siebel systems. see note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the reorganization. software and services we are organized into two businesses, software and services, which are further divided into five operating segments. our software business is comprised of two operating segments: (1) new software licenses and (2) software license updates and product support. our services business is comprised of three operating segments: (1) consulting, (2) on demand and (3) education. our software business represented 80%, 80% and 79% of total revenues and our services business represented 20%, 20% and 21% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. see note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements for additional information related to our operating segments. 1 table of contents software business new software licenses new software licenses include the licensing of database and middleware software, which consists of oracle database and oracle fusion middleware, as well as applications software. our technology and business solutions are based on an internet model comprised of interconnected database servers, application servers, web servers and computers as well as mobile devices running web browsers. this architecture enables users to access business data and applications through a universally adopted web browser interface, while providing enterprises the most efficient and cost effective method of managing business information and applications. in an internet model, database servers manage and protect the underlying business information, while application servers run the business applications that automate a myriad of business functions. we have focused on concepts such as global single instance application deployment that establishes fewer, high quality databases of important business information, rather than dozens or hundreds of disparate databases that are difficult to synchronize and coordinate. our integrated, component-based architecture provides high quality business information and can be adapted to the specific needs of any industry or application. oracle technology operates on single server or clustered server configurations, and supports a choice of operating systems including linux, unix and windows. new software license revenues include fees earned from granting customers licenses to use our software products and exclude revenues derived from software license updates and product support. the standard end user software license agreement for our products provides for an initial fee to use the product in perpetuity based on a maximum number of processors, named users or other metrics. we also have other types of software license agreements restricted by the number of employees or the license term. new software license revenues represented 34%, 35% and 35% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. database and middleware software our grid software provides a cost-effective, high-performance platform for running and managing business applications for small and midsize businesses to large global enterprises. with an increasing focus on low-cost, high volume server and storage components, oracle grids are designed to accommodate demanding business environments, while providing the ability to assign and reassign computing power to various applications. this ability to reconfigure computing resources as needed simplifies computing capacity, planning and procurement. with an oracle grid infrastructure, customers can reduce the need to purchase additional hardware and can reduce the risk of too little computing power during high traffic periods. new software license revenues from database and middleware products represented 73%, 81% and 82% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. database the oracle database management system is a key component of a grid infrastructure enabling the storage, manipulation and retrieval of all forms of data including traditional relational data, xml data, olap cubes and unstructured data such as documents, spreadsheets and images. oracle database 10 g , which is designed for grid computing, is available in four editions: express edition, standard edition one, standard edition and enterprise edition. all editions are built using the same common code base, which means that database applications can easily scale from small, single processor servers to clusters of multi-processor servers without changing a line of code. additional options to the oracle database are available, including real application clusters, as well as other products including collaboration suite, enterprise manager and secure enterprise search. real application clusters the oracle database is unique in that it runs applications with a very high degree of scalability and reliability across multiple low cost computers clustered together. this is achieved by using oracle real application clusters, a clustered configuration of the oracle database that creates a single, scalable and fault tolerant 2 table of contents database shared across an interconnected cluster of servers. clustering database servers dramatically increases system reliability as the server is no longer a single point of failure. to scale computing capacity, customers can simply add servers to their cluster and the database software adapts to utilize the additional computing resources. clustering significantly improves application scalability and availability without requiring users to modify their applications or purchase additional computing capacity. customers can achieve significant cost savings by using clusters of small, low-cost servers instead of larger, more expensive computers and by eliminating the need for dedicated fail-over servers. collaboration suite oracle collaboration suite is a single, integrated suite that manages email and voicemail messages, facsimiles, calendaring, conferencing, instant messaging, file sharing, search and workflow. the oracle collaboration suite centralizes administration and lowers operating costs by consolidating email and file servers. additionally, users are provided with one folder for their email, files, voicemail and facsimile messages. the oracle collaboration suite is built on the oracle database and oracle fusion middleware, supports enterprise-scale implementations and offers high-availability features such as rapid server failover, disaster recovery and automated backup. with oracle collaboration suite, users access all their communications content via desktop applications, the internet, personal digital assistants or mobile phones, improving communication and collaboration. enterprise manager oracle enterprise manager 10g is designed to monitor and manage the oracle software infrastructure as well as applications and business services in diverse it environments. oracle enterprise manager 10g is designed to monitor service levels and performance, automate tasks, complete backup and recovery, among other things, in a unified way and across groups of computers, or grids. provisioning automates the discovery, tracking and scheduling of software patches and will allow administrators to apply patches without taking the system down using rolling upgrades. additionally, administrators can manage systems from anywhere through an html browser and through wireless pdas. secure enterprise search oracle secure enterprise search provides an internet-like search experience to users searching secure content inside the enterprise. oracle secure enterprise search indexes and searches public, private and shared content across internal and external web sites, databases, file servers, document repositories, enterprise content management systems, applications and portals. oracle secure enterprise search has built-in functionality that permits users to see only search results leading to information for which they have authorized access. the product features a simple web interface allowing for efficient administration and management. additionally, users can access the search engine through web-based user interfaces and perform traditional keyword searches that provide results in a format similar to conventional web searches. middleware oracle fusion middleware is the brand for oracle portfolio of middleware products, which include oracle application server, oracle business intelligence, oracle developer suite and oracle service oriented architecture suite, among others. oracle fusion middleware hot-pluggable architecture is built on industry standards such as j2ee, business process execution language (bpel) and other web services standards. using oracle fusion middleware enables customers to easily integrate heterogeneous business applications, automate business processes, and leverage their existing applications, systems and technology investments. in addition, oracle fusion middleware supports multiple development languages and tools, allowing developers to build and deploy web services, web sites, portals and web-based applications. oracle middleware is used to support oracle applications, as well as other enterprise applications and independent software vendors that use oracle fusion middleware as the basis to build their own custom applications. 3 table of contents application server the foundation of oracle fusion middleware is oracle application server 10g. designed for grid computing, oracle application server 10g incorporates clustering and caching technology, which increases application reliability, performance, security and scalability. oracle application server 10g also provides a complete integration platform that is designed to simplify and accelerate business, application and data integration projects. the identity management option for oracle application server 10g makes it easier for companies to manage multiple identities and access privileges, which helps to safeguard information, critical systems and applications against unauthorized access. oracle application server 10g also includes oracle portal, which allows personalized portal sites to be rapidly developed and deployed, all with single sign-on and security. portal sites are assembled using portlets, which are reusable interface components that provide access to web-based resources such as applications, business intelligence reports, syndicated content feeds and outsourced software services. with the wireless capability of oracle application server 10g enterprise edition, portal sites can be made available to any wireless device. business intelligence suite oracle business intelligence suite is a family of enterprise business intelligence products that unites oracle existing business intelligence and middleware technology with siebel business analytics to offer customers enterprise-wide business intelligence infrastructure and tools. based on oracle hot-pluggable business intelligence infrastructure, these products deliver a full spectrum of business intelligence requirements, including interactive dashboards, ad hoc query and analysis, proactive intelligence and alerts, enterprise reporting, real-time predictive intelligence and mobile analytics. current editions of the oracle business intelligence suite include the oracle business intelligence suite enterprise edition and oracle business intelligence suite standard edition. oracle business intelligence suite enterprise edition is open to any enterprise data source and optimized for oracle or non-oracle databases, allowing customers to integrate data from all their enterprise applications, including third party and customer applications. oracle business intelligence suite standard edition is optimized to work with oracle data and applications. developer suite oracle developer suite is an integrated suite of development tools designed to facilitate rapid development of internet database applications and web services. the oracle developer suite contains application development and business intelligence tools and is built on internet standards such as java, j2ee, xml and html. the oracle developer suite includes oracle jdeveloper, a java development environment for modeling, building, debugging and testing enterprise-class j2ee applications and web services. in addition, the suite contains oracle designer, a tool that allows developers to model business processes and automatically generate enterprise database applications, and oracle forms developer, a development tool for building database applications that can be deployed unchanged in both internet and client/server based environments. the oracle developer suite also includes oracle warehouse builder software that consolidates fragmented data and metadata pulled from packaged applications, custom applications and legacy applications. oracle warehouse builder enables developers to graphically design the multidimensional database schema and to automatically generate and load the data warehouse. 4 table of contents service-oriented architecture suite oracle service-oriented architecture (soa) suite is a complete set of service infrastructure components for creating, deploying, and managing soa s, including oracle developer 10g, oracle bpel process manager, oracle web services manager, oracle business rules engine, oracle business activity monitoring, and oracle enterprise service bus. oracle soa suite enables services to be created, managed and orchestrated into composite applications and reconfigurable business processes, reducing development time and costs and increasing flexibility and response time. oracle soa suite is hot-pluggable, enabling customers to easily extend and evolve their architectures instead of replacing existing investments. applications software our applications strategy is centralized around protecting our customers current investments by providing lifetime support, continuous product enhancements and upgrades; extending the benefits of those investments by delivering new technologies such as oracle database 10g, oracle grid computing and oracle service-oriented architecture designed to support oracle fusion applications; and supporting our customers evolution to the next generation of enterprise software that best fits their needs, whether that is oracle fusion applications or one of our four enterprise software lines: oracle e-business suite, peoplesoft enterprise, jd edwards enterpriseone | jd edwards world and siebel business applications. developed to deliver business insights, adaptive industry processes, and a superior ownership experience, oracle applications enable efficient management of all core business functions, including customer relationship management (crm), financial management, human resources and supply chain management. each of our four enterprise applications product lines is offered as a fully integrated suite or available on a component basis, and all are built on open architectures and are designed for flexible configuration and open, multi-vendor integration. oracle applications combine business functionality with innovative technologies such as workflow and self-service applications, to enable users to lower the cost of their business operations by providing customers, suppliers and employees with self-service internet access to both transaction processing and critical business information. companies can use self-service applications to automate a variety of business functions, such as customer service and support, procurement, expense reporting and reimbursement. each product line is also available in multiple languages and currencies, enabling companies to support both global and local business practices and legal requirements. our applications can be tailored to offer customers a variety of industry-specific solutions. as part of our strategy, we strive to ensure that our applications portfolio addresses the major industry-influenced technology challenges of customers in key industries. with the acquisition of siebel, we gained expertise in the vertical markets in which siebel offered industry solutions. in addition, we recently expanded our offerings in certain industries, most notably in retail with our acquisitions of retek, inc. and several other companies; in banking with our majority interest in i-flex solutions limited; and in telecommunications with our recent acquisition of portal software, inc. we also offer a comprehensive set of analytic applications. our analytic applications include capabilities such as corporate performance management, interactive dashboarding, embedded analytics and actionable intelligence for each business function and user role. all of our analytic solutions are hot-pluggable into existing operational systems, enabling customers to incorporate enhanced intelligence capabilities into oracle, custom and third-party applications. we enable customers to synchronize information in a single central location, from all systems throughout the enterprise to get an accurate, consistent view of company data from packaged, legacy or customer applications through products like oracle customer data hub and the oracle product information management data hub. oracle data hubs are built on open standards and can integrate with third-party software, as well as all modules within the oracle e-business suite. 5 table of contents new software license revenues from applications software represented 27%, 19% and 18% of new software license revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. fusion applications oracle fusion applications represent the next generation of oracle applications, based on a service-oriented platform, built on open industry standards, extensible by customers and partners and interoperable with third party and existing installations. fusion is being designed to leverage the best functionality and combine the best features, flows and usability traits of the oracle e-business suite, peoplesoft, jd edwards and siebel application products into one product line. we believe the resulting suite of applications will deliver a superior ownership experience through improved usability, adaptive business process automation, built-in business intelligence and industry-specific capabilities. applications unlimited we recently announced that we would continue to invest in enhancements to our current oracle e-business suite, peoplesoft, jd edwards and siebel applications products beyond the delivery of oracle fusion applications. with the applications unlimited program, customers will not be required to migrate to fusion applications, but may choose to stay with their current product lines that will have dedicated development and support teams. software license updates and product support we seek to protect our customers current investments in oracle technology and applications by offering lifetime support, product enhancements and upgrades. software license updates provide customers with rights to unspecified software product upgrades, maintenance releases and patches released during the term of the support period, which is typically one year. product support includes internet access to technical content, as well as internet and telephone access to technical support personnel. product support typically is provided by our global support centers. software license updates and product support are generally priced as a percentage of the new software license fees. substantially all of our customers purchase software license updates and product support when they acquire new software licenses. in addition, substantially all of our customers renew their software license updates and product support contracts annually. software license updates and product support revenues represented 46%, 45% and 44% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. services business consulting oracle consulting assists customers in accessing the business value in our applications and technology using business requirements analysis, design, configuration as well as support and other services such as preconfigured business flows. we deploy professionals globally through various blended delivery capabilities, including use of personnel from offshore delivery centers and applications solutions centers to leverage economies of scale for our customers. consulting revenues represented 15%, 15% and 16% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. on demand on demand (formerly advanced product services) includes oracle on demand and advanced customer services. oracle on demand provides multi-featured software and hardware management and maintenance services for our database, middleware and applications software. we recently expanded our oracle on demand offerings with the addition of siebel crm on demand. we believe oracle on demand enables our customers to lower information technology costs and improve their business efficiency by having us manage for them the availability, security, performance and change management for our software. advanced customer services consists of configuration and performance analysis, personalized support and annual on-site technical services. on demand revenues represented 3% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. 6 table of contents education we provide training to customers, partners and employees as part of our mission of accelerating the adoption of our technology around the world. our training is provided primarily through public and private instructor-led classroom events, but is also made available through a variety of online courses and self paced media training on cd-roms. education revenues represented 2% of total revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004. marketing and sales sales distribution channels in the united states, we market our products and services primarily through our own sales and service organization. sales and service employees are based in our headquarters and in field offices throughout the united states. outside the united states, we market our products and services primarily through our subsidiary sales and service organizations. our subsidiaries license and support our products in their local countries as well as within other foreign countries where we do not operate through a direct sales subsidiary. we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partner network. our partners resell our products or combine our database, development tools and applications with computer hardware, software application packages or services for subsequent redistribution and/or implementation. the oracle partner network allows us to pursue new business opportunities through partners as well as with direct customers. partners in the program include consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators, resellers, independent software vendors and system integrators / implementers. partners can also participate in the oracle technology network. this program is specifically designed for the database administrator, internet developer and applications suite user communities. we provide applications, technology, education and technical support that enable our partners to effectively integrate our products into their business offerings. the combination of oracle infrastructure and applications and our partners expertise broadens our exposure in new markets. international markets we sell our products and provide services worldwide. our geographic coverage allows us to draw on business and technical expertise from a worldwide workforce, provides stability to our operations and revenue streams to offset geography-specific economic trends and offers us an opportunity to take advantage of new markets for products. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 15 of notes to consolidated financial statements. cyclicality and seasonality general economic conditions have an impact on our business and financial results. the markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected revenues. our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services, as our revenues are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. see quarterly results of operations in item 7 for a more complete description of the cyclicality and seasonality of our revenues and expenses. customers our customer base consists of a significant number of businesses of many sizes and industries, government agencies, educational institutions and resellers. no single customer accounted for 10% or more of revenues in fiscal 2006, 2005 or 2004. 7 table of contents competition the enterprise software industry is intensely competitive and evolving rapidly. we compete in various segments of this industry including database software, middleware (business intelligence, application integration, portal server, j2ee application server, development tools and identity management), collaboration, development tools, enterprise applications and consulting/systems integration, among others. total cost of ownership, performance, functionality, ease of use, standards-compliance, product reliability, security and quality of technical support are key competitive factors that face us in each of the areas in which we compete. our customers are also demanding less complexity and lower cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software, which has led increasingly to our product offerings (database, middleware and applications) being viewed as a stack of software designed to work together. our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus our competitors) are also affected by the broader platform competition between industry-standard java (j2ee) and microsoft corporation .net programming environments and by operating system competition between windows server, unix (sun solaris, hp-ux and ibm aix) and linux. open source alternatives to commercial software in many of our primary markets, such as mysql ab in database and red hat, inc. / jboss in application servers, and sugarcrm inc. in applications are also impacting the competitive environment. these products are typically offered free of charge and are readily available over the internet. finally, so-called on demand offerings, such as those from salesforce.com, will continue to alter the competitive landscape. in the sale of database software and related tools, scalability, reliability, availability and security are key competitive differentiators for us. our competitors include international business machines corporation, microsoft, sybase, inc., ncr corporation teradata division, sas institute, inc., informatica corporation, and the open source databases, mysql and postgresql, among others. our ability to continually innovate and differentiate our database offering has enabled us to maintain our leading position in database software over our competitors. in the sale of middleware products, our offerings include business intelligence, application integration, business process management (bpm), soa, portal, j2ee application server, development tools and identity management software. our ability to offer a full range of rich functionality in a standards-based, open architecture has been a key competitive differentiator. our competitors include ibm, microsoft, bea systems, inc., sap aktiengesellschaft, sun microsystems inc., sybase and open source projects such as red hat / jboss, apache geronimo and objectweb, as well as other competitors in each element of our packaged functions. business intelligence competitors include actuate corporation, business objects s.a., cognos incorporated, hyperion solutions corporation, microstrategy, inc., sas institute, open source netezza corporation, and others. application server competitors include borland software corporation, fujitsu software corporation, hitachi software engineering co., ltd., adobe systems incorporated and others. enterprise application integration competitors include webmethods, inc., tibco software, inc., iona technologies plc, sonic software corporation, sun microsystems and others. bpm competitors include lombardi software, inc., savvion, inc., pegasystems inc. and others. enterprise portal vendors include vignette corporation, novell, inc., fujitsu, and others. identity management vendors include ibm, ca, inc., sun microsystems, and hewlett-packard company, among others. open source vendors red hat, and novell are also increasingly bundling middleware functionality with their respective linux distributions, as evidenced by red hat recent acquisition of jboss. as a package, our middleware solutions have experienced rapid growth in recent years relative to our competitors. in the sale of collaboration products, we compete primarily with microsoft (exchange/outlook), ibm (domino/notes), novell (groupwise) and webex communications, inc. in addition, we compete in the related content management markets with emc corporation (documentum), filenet corporation, percussion software, inc. and vignette, among others. in the sale of development tools, ease of use, standard-compliance and the level of abstraction (automated code generation) are key competitive differentiators. we compete against ibm (websphere studio), microsoft 8 table of contents (visualstudio.net), sun microsystems (sun studio), sybase (powerbuilder), open source eclipse and others. the success of our development tools is closely related to the relative popularity of our platform (database and middleware) compared to our competitors, as well as the larger competition between java and microsoft .net. the sale of applications software, in particular, is changing rapidly due to the development and deployment of soa and web services, application integration middleware as well as software as a service offerings, such as those from salesforce.com and rightnow technologies inc. in crm applications. as a result of our acquisitions of peoplesoft and siebel, we presently offer several product lines, which are suited for different needs of customers in different industries. we compete against sap, lawson software, inc., infor, microsoft dynamics (great plains, solomon, axapta, navision), sage, inc., ssa global technologies, inc. and many other application providers. these include numerous point solution providers such as epicor software corporation (accounting), sungard data systems inc. (treasury), kronos incorporated (time and attendance), taleo corporation (recruitment), callidus software inc. (compensation), automatic data processing, inc. (hr, payroll, and bpo), ariba, inc. (procurement), i2 technologies, inc. (supply chain management), mro software, inc. (enterprise asset management), dsci corporation (logistics), extensity (erp), broadvision, inc. (marketing), kana software, inc. (analytics), salesforce.com (sales force automation) and amdocs limited (customer service). in addition, we compete with numerous specialized applications providers focused in specific vertical industries, such as financial services, retail, telecommunications and others. sap is a major competitor in every industry vertical. specialized industry vertical solutions such as retail and banking are also influenced heavily by the presence of customized solutions and in-house development. with soa, our packaged applications also compete with custom solutions either developed in-house or by large systems integrators such as accenture ltd. or ibm global services. our pre-packaged applications also compete against business process outsourcers including adp, fidelity investments, ceridian corporation, hewitt-cyborg limited and others. our application products are architected around a single database model, which we believe is a key differentiator between our most significant competitors and us. in the sale of consulting and systems integration services, we both partner with and compete against accenture ltd., electronic data systems corporation, ibm global services, bearing point, inc., capgemini group and many others. research and development we develop the majority of our products internally. in addition, we have acquired technology through business acquisitions. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $1.9 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.3 billion, or 13% of total revenues, in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. as a percentage of new software license revenues, research and development expenditures were 38%, 37% and 36% in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software markets in which we compete. we plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our database, middleware technology and applications software. we plan to continue to maintain and enhance the oracle e-business, peoplesoft, jd edwards and siebel application suites in addition to investing in oracle fusion applications. 9 table of contents employees as of may 31, 2006, we employed 56,133 full-time employees, including 13,534 in sales and marketing, 5,500 in license updates and product support, 16,435 in services, 14,432 in research and development and 6,232 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, 23,209 were located in the united states and 32,924 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain international subsidiaries worker councils represent our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the securities and exchange commission. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers and significant employees of the registrant our executive officers and significant employees are listed below. unless otherwise indicated, each occupation set forth opposite an individual name and further described below refers to employment currently with oracle and, prior to january 31, 2006, with oracle systems corporation, formerly known as oracle corporation and currently a wholly owned subsidiary of oracle. as of january 31, 2006, as part of the reorganization described in note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements through which oracle systems corporation became a wholly owned subsidiary of oracle, all of the executive officers of oracle systems corporation were appointed executive officers of oracle with the same titles. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director charles e. phillips, jr. president and director keith g. block executive vice president, north america sales and consulting sergio giacoletto executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa sales and consulting juergen rottler executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand charles a. rozwat executive vice president, server technologies derek h. williams executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting john wookey senior vice president, applications development daniel cooperman senior vice president, general counsel and secretary jennifer l. minton senior vice president, finance and operations mr. ellison, 61, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004 and from may 1990 to october 1992 and president from may 1978 to july 1996. mr. henley, 61, has served as the chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as an executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. prior to joining us, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of pacific holding company, a privately-held company with diversified interests in manufacturing and real estate, from august 1986 to february 1991. he also serves as a director of callwave, inc. ms. catz, 44, has been chief financial officer since november 2005 and a president since january 2004. she has served as a director since october 2001. she was interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. she served as an executive vice president from november 1999 to january 2004 and senior vice president from april 1999 to october 1999. 10 table of contents mr. phillips, 47, has been a president and has served as a director since january 2004. he served as executive vice president strategy, partnerships, and business development, from may 2003 to january 2004. prior to joining oracle, mr. phillips was with morgan stanley &amp; co. incorporated, a global investment bank, where he was a managing director from november 1995 to may 2003 and a principal from december 1994 to november 1995. from 1986 to 1994, mr. phillips worked at various investment banking firms on wall street. prior to that, mr. phillips served as a captain in the united states marine corps as an information technology officer. mr. phillips also serves as a director of morgan stanley and viacom inc. mr. block, 45, has been executive vice president, north america sales and consulting since september 2002 and executive vice president, north america consulting since february 2002. he served as senior vice president of north america commercial consulting and global service lines from june 1999 until january 2002. he served as senior vice president of the commercial consulting practice from april 1999 until may 1999. mr. block was group vice president, east consulting from june 1997 until march 1999. prior to joining oracle in 1986, mr. block was a senior consultant at booz, allen and hamilton. mr. giacoletto, 56, has been executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa sales and consulting since june 2000 and senior vice president, business solutions since november 1998. he was vice president, alliances and technology from march 1997 to november 1998. before joining oracle, he had been president of at&amp;t solutions for europe since august 1994. previously, he spent 20 years with digital equipment corporation in various positions in european marketing and services. mr. rottler, 40, has been executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand since september 2004. prior to joining oracle, he served as senior vice president, public sector, customer solutions group at hewlett-packard company ( hp ), from december 2003 to september 2004, where he was responsible for hp worldwide public sector, health and education business. mr. rottler was vice president, hp services worldwide sales and marketing from may 2003 to december 2003, vice president, hp services worldwide marketing, strategy and alliances from may 2002 to may 2003 and vice president and general manager, hp services north america from april 2000 to may 2002. mr. rozwat, 58, has been executive vice president, server technologies since november 1999 and served as senior vice president, database server from december 1996 to october 1999. he served as vice president of development from december 1994 to november 1996. prior to joining oracle, he spent 17 years in various positions at digital equipment corporation. mr. williams, 61, has been executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting since october 2000 and senior vice president, asia pacific from july 1993 to october 2000. he served as vice president, asia pacific from april 1991 to july 1993. mr. williams joined oracle united kingdom in october 1988 and served as regional director, strategic accounts from october 1988 to april 1991. mr. wookey, 47, has been senior vice president, applications development since april 2000. mr. wookey served as senior vice president, financial applications products from april 1999 to january 2000 and vice president, financial applications products from june 1995 to april 1999. prior to joining us, he spent eight years as vice president of development at ross systems, inc. mr. cooperman, 55, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since february 1997. prior to joining oracle, he had been associated with the law firm of mccutchen, doyle, brown &amp; enersen (which has since become bingham mccutchen llp) from october 1977, and had served as a partner since june 1983. from september 1995 until february 1997, mr. cooperman was chair of the law firm business and transactions group and from april 1989 through september 1995, he served as the managing partner of the law firm san jose office. ms. minton, 45, has been senior vice president, finance and operations since october 2001. she served as senior vice president and corporate controller from april 2000 to september 2001 and vice president and corporate controller from november 1998 to march 2000. ms. minton joined oracle in may 1989. 11 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in item 7, highlights some of these risks. for purposes of the following risk factors, the terms oracle, we, us and our refer to oracle and its consolidated subsidiaries. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our revenue growth and profitability. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; the overall demand for enterprise computer software and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments, such as the war on terrorism. a general weakening of the global economy, or a curtailment in government spending, could delay and decrease customer purchases. in addition, the war on terrorism, the war in iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, as well as natural disasters, continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our revenue growth and results of operations. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of software licenses, and to a lesser extent, also affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues, are difficult to forecast, and as a result our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in information technology spending or economic conditions generally can reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms. in addition, for companies we acquire, we will have limited experience for several quarters following the acquisition regarding how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues and their conversion rate post-acquisition may be quite different from their historical conversion rate. because a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter, and our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. a delay in even a small number of large new software license transactions could cause our quarterly new software licenses revenues to fall significantly short of our predictions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware, software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software market in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or renew software license updates and product support. in addition, standards for network protocols, as well as other industry adopted and de facto standards for the internet, are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the 12 table of contents standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we are developing a next generation applications platform that is planned to combine the best features, flows and usability traits of the oracle, peoplesoft, jd edwards and siebel applications. we have also acquired several other application product lines, which we will need to continue to provide long-term support for as well as ensure that the key capabilities of these product lines moves into the next generation platform. if we do not develop and release these products within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of the product line, or if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines, our applications business may be adversely affected. acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of any transaction. an active acquisition program is an important element of our corporate strategy. we expect to continue to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. in the last two years, we have paid an aggregate of $19.5 billion for acquisitions. risks we may encounter in acquisitions include: the acquisition may not further our business strategy, or we may pay more than it is worth; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if acquired contract models do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating the acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, controls, procedures and policies; we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products; we may have multiple and overlapping product lines that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; our relationship with current and new employees, customers and distributors could be impaired; we may assume pre-existing contractual relationships which we would not have entered into and exiting or modifying such relationships may be costly to us and disruptive to customers; our due diligence process may fail to identify technical problems, such as issues with the company product quality or product architecture or unlicensed use of technology, including, for example, improperly incorporated open source code; we may have legal and tax exposures or lose anticipated tax benefits as a result of unforeseen difficulties in our legal entity merger integration activities; we may face contingencies related to product liability, intellectual property, financial disclosures and accounting practices or internal controls; the acquisition may result in litigation from terminated employees or third parties; our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by transition or integration issues; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws and from worker councils under applicable employment laws; and to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. 13 table of contents these factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. peoplesoft customer assurance program may expose us to substantial liabilities if triggered. in june 2003, in response to our tender offer, peoplesoft implemented what it referred to as the customer assurance program or cap . the cap incorporated a provision in peoplesoft standard licensing arrangement that purports to contractually burden oracle, as a result of its acquisition of peoplesoft, with a contingent obligation to make payments to peoplesoft customers should oracle fail to take certain business actions for a fixed period of time subsequent to the acquisition. the payment obligation, which typically expires four years from the date of the contract, is fixed at an amount generally between two and five times the license and first year support fees paid to peoplesoft in the applicable license transaction. this purported obligation was not reflected as a liability on peoplesoft balance sheet as peoplesoft concluded that it could be triggered only following the consummation of an acquisition. peoplesoft used six different standard versions of the cap over the 18-month period commencing june 2003. peoplesoft ceased using the cap on december 29, 2004, the date on which we acquired a controlling interest in peoplesoft. we have concluded that, as of the date of the peoplesoft acquisition, the penalty provisions under the cap represented a contingent liability of oracle. the aggregate potential cap obligation as of may 31, 2006 was $3.5 billion. unless the cap provisions are removed from these licensing arrangements, we do not expect the aggregate potential cap obligation to decline substantially until fiscal year 2008 when a significant number of these provisions begin to expire. the last cap obligation will expire on december 31, 2008. we have not recorded a liability related to the cap, as we do not believe it is probable that our post-acquisition activities related to the peoplesoft product line will trigger an obligation to make any payment pursuant to the cap. in addition, while no assurance can be given as to the ultimate outcome of litigation, we believe we would also have substantial defenses with respect to the legality and enforceability of the cap contract provisions in response to any claims seeking payment from oracle under the cap terms. while we have taken extensive steps to assure customers that we intend to continue developing and supporting the peoplesoft and jd edwards product lines and as of may 31, 2006 we have not received any claims for cap payments, peoplesoft customers may assert claims for cap payments. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property. we rely on a combination of copyright, patent, trade secrets, confidentiality procedures and contractual commitments to protect our proprietary information. despite our efforts, these measures can only provide limited protection. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our proprietary rights as do the laws of the united states. if we cannot protect our proprietary technology against unauthorized copying or use, we may not remain competitive. third parties may claim we infringe their intellectual property rights. we periodically receive notices from others claiming we are infringing their intellectual property rights, principally patent rights. we expect the number of such claims will increase as the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows, the functionality of products overlap, and the volume of issued software patents continues to increase. responding to any infringement claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time-consuming, costly and/or result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; or require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers. 14 table of contents if a successful claim is made against us and we fail to develop or license a substitute technology, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. a patent infringement case is discussed under note 21 in our notes to consolidated financial statements. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intensely competitive markets in which we compete can put pressure on us to reduce our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes would likely reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our new license fees. our competitors may offer a lower percentage pricing on product updates and support, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. any broadly-based changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause new software license and services revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle software products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for our products. in addition, if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products, our new software license revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing new software license revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases or lower spending. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we may be unable to compete effectively in a range of markets within the highly competitive software industry. many vendors develop and market databases, internet application server products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our offerings. in addition, several companies offer business outsourcing as a competitive alternative to buying software. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. also, our competitors who offer business applications and application server products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose market share if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property free. existing or new competitors could gain market share in any of our markets at our expense. our periodic sales force restructurings can be disruptive. we continue to rely heavily on our direct sales force. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our sales force in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity; these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. disruptions of our indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and market share. 15 table of contents charges to earnings resulting from past acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under purchase accounting, we allocate the total purchase price to an acquired company net tangible assets, amortizable intangible assets and in-process research and development based on their fair values as of the date of the acquisition and record the excess of the purchase price over those fair values as goodwill. management estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. going forward, the following factors could result in material charges that would adversely affect our results: impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; accrual of newly identified pre-merger contingent liabilities that are identified subsequent to the finalization of the purchase price allocation; and charges to income to eliminate certain oracle pre-merger activities that duplicate those of the acquired company or to reduce our cost structure. charges to earnings associated with acquisitions include amortization of intangible assets, in-process research and development as well as other acquisition related charges, restructuring and stock-based compensation associated with assumed stock awards. charges to earnings in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. see item 7, management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations supplemental disclosure related to acquisition accounting for additional information about charges to earnings associated with our recent acquisitions. we expect to continue to incur additional costs associated with combining the operations of our previously acquired companies, which may be substantial. additional costs may include costs of employee redeployment, relocation and retention, including salary increases or bonuses, accelerated amortization of deferred equity compensation and severance payments, reorganization or closure of facilities, taxes and termination of contracts that provide redundant or conflicting services. some of these costs may have to be accounted for as expenses that would decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those adjustments are made. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software development, sales, customer support and shared administrative service centers. we are subject to a variety of risks, including those related to general economic conditions in each country or region, regulatory changes, political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations. we face challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, which can entail longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, overlapping tax regimes, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, difficulties in transferring funds from certain countries and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. we must comply with a variety of international laws and regulations, including trade restrictions, local labor ordinances, changes in tariff rates and import and export licensing requirements. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we are a majority shareholder of i-flex solutions limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry. as the majority shareholder of an international entity, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a portion of our business in currencies other than the united states dollar. our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the united states dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. 16 table of contents our foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors, are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge certain transaction and translation exposures in major currencies, but we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge foreign currencies. oracle on demand may not be successful. we offer oracle on demand outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered either at oracle or at a customer designated location. oracle on demand also includes several product lines we have acquired. our oracle on demand business model continues to evolve and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or develop oracle on demand into a profitable business. this business is subject to a variety of risks including: demand for these services may not meet our expectations; we may not be able to operate this business at an acceptable profit level; we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through oracle on demand and thus would face increased exposure to significant damage claims in the event of system failures or inadequate disaster recovery or misappropriation of customer confidential information; we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance, as well as workforce reduction claims as a result of customers transferring their information technology functions to us; the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of offshore resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the cost and risk associated with providing the services; and our oracle on demand offerings may require large fixed costs such as for data centers, computers, network infrastructure and security. we may be unable to hire enough qualified employees or we may lose key employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the software industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. part of our total compensation program includes stock options. if our stock price performs poorly it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract key employees. in addition, since we will expense all stock-based compensation beginning in fiscal 2007, we may change both our cash and stock-based compensation practices. some of the changes we are considering include the reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new 17 table of contents versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing new products or new versions of products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, oracle on demand, and other outsourcing, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct business operations. end users, who rely on our products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing and localizing software is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long payback cycle. we have and expect to continue making significant investments in software research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years if at all. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the united states government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, who may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the united states congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. for example, there is a pending u.s. government investigation of peoplesoft pricing practices prior to our acquisition under multiple award schedule contracts. while we do not believe that this investigation will result in material damages, we could be subject to similar investigations or actions in the future. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations is concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our on demand offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and as a result our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject 18 table of contents to additional audits in the future. we previously negotiated three unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the irs from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. however, these agreements, which are effective for fiscal years through may 31, 2006, do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the united states. we have finalized one bilateral advance pricing agreement and currently are negotiating an additional bilateral agreement to cover the period from june 1, 2001 through may 31, 2008. there can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, we cannot assure you that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. we are also subject to non-income taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income tax exposures. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 53 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk interest income rate risk. based on our intentions regarding our investments, we classify our investments as either held-to-maturity or available-for-sale. held-to-maturity investments are reported on the balance sheet at amortized cost. available-for-sale securities are reported at market value. auction rate securities, which are classified as available-for-sale, are reported on the balance sheet at par value, which equals market value, as the rate on such securities re-sets generally every 7 to 28 days. as a majority of our investments are held-to-maturity, interest rate movements do not affect the balance sheet valuation of the fixed income investments. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect our interest income that is generated from our investments. for fiscal 2006, total interest income was $170 million with investments yielding an average 3.04% on a worldwide basis. this interest rate level was up approximately 111 basis points from 1.93% for fiscal 2005. if overall interest rates fell by a similar amount (111 basis points) in fiscal 2007, our interest income would decline approximately $64 million, assuming consistent investment levels. the table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2006. the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances approximate fair value at may 31, 2006: (dollars in millions) amortized principal amount weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 6,659 4.08% marketable securities 946 2.18% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 7,605 3.84% 53 table of contents the following table includes the united states dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies. see discussion of our foreign currency risk below for a description of how we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. (in millions) amortized principal amount at may 31, 2006 japanese yen $ 748 euro 384 chinese renminbi 303 british pound 304 canadian dollar 231 australian dollar 125 south african rand 119 other currencies 929 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 3,143 interest expense rate risk . borrowings as of may 31, 2006 were $5.9 billion, consisting of $4.3 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $1.6 billion of variable rate borrowings. interest expense for fiscal 2006 was $169 million. based on effective interest rates at may 31, 2006, a 50 basis point increase in interest rates on our borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations would increase our interest expense by approximately $8 million annually. (dollars in millions) borrowings effective interest rate floating rate senior notes due january 2009 (1) $ 1,500 5.28% 6.91% senior notes due february 2007 and related interest rate swap (2) 150 7.30% total borrowings subject to variable interest rate fluctuations $ 1,650 (1) the 2009 notes bear interest at a floating rate equal to three-month libor plus 0.23% per year. (2) we entered into an interest-rate swap agreement that has the economic effect of modifying the interest obligations associated with our 6.91% senior notes so that the interest payable on the senior notes effectively becomes variable based on the three month libor set quarterly until maturity. foreign currency transaction risk. we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risk associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the forward contracts, to mitigate the possibility of foreign currency transaction gains or losses. these foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions. our forward contracts generally have terms of 90 days or less. we do not use forward contracts for trading purposes. all outstanding foreign currency forward contracts (excluding our yen equity hedge described below) are marked to market at the end of the period with unrealized gains and losses included in non-operating income, net. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will depend on the currency exchange rates and other factors in effect as the contracts mature. net foreign exchange transaction gains (losses) included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $15 million, $(27) million and $(21) million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. the fair values of foreign currency forward contracts were not significant individually and approximated $(0.3) million and $0.2 million as of may 31, 2006 and 2005. 54 table of contents the table below presents the notional amounts (at contract exchange rates) and the weighted average contractual foreign currency exchange rates for the outstanding forward contracts as of may 31, 2006. notional weighted average exchange rates are quoted using market conventions where the currency is expressed in currency units per united states dollar. all of our forward contracts mature in 90 days or less as of may 31, 2006. table of forward contracts: united states dollar foreign exchange contracts (dollars in millions) exchange foreign currency for u.s. dollars (notional amount) exchange u.s. dollars for foreign currency (notional amount) notional weighted average exchange rate functional currency: australian dollar $ 8.4 $ 4.2 0.75 british pound 7.4 1.86 canadian dollar 23.2 1.11 chilean peso 3.1 527.00 chinese renminbi 195.2 7.96 columbian peso 7.1 1.8 2,486.00 euro 87.9 1.28 indian rupee 1.7 46.14 japanese yen 47.2 1.8 111.23 korean won 18.8 946.00 mexican peso 4.6 11.20 new zealand dollar 2.4 0.63 norwegian krone 1.0 6.12 peruvian sol 2.2 3.27 philippine peso 9.2 53.25 saudi arabian riyal 33.2 3.75 singapore dollar 2.2 3.8 1.58 swedish krona 1.2 7.26 south african rand 7.4 6.61 taiwan dollar 2.7 31.78 thai baht 7.5 1.0 38.27 total $ 466.2 $ 20.0 euro foreign exchange contracts (euros in millions) exchange foreign currency euros (notional amount) exchange euros for foreign currency (notional amount) notional weighted average exchange rate functional currency: swiss franc 5.8 1.56 danish krone 2.4 7.46 british pound 39.2 0.69 israeli shekel 1.8 5.80 norwegian krone 3.0 7.82 polish zloty 5.8 3.94 saudi arabian riyal 2.0 4.80 slovakian koruna 2.1 37.86 swedish krona 4.6 9.28 united states dollar 14.1 1.28 south african rand 29.3 8.45 total 110.1 55 table of contents net investment risk. periodically, we hedge the net assets of certain international subsidiaries (net investment hedges) using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our investments in these subsidiaries. we measure the effectiveness of net investment hedges by using the changes in spot exchange rates because this method reflects our risk management strategies, the economics of those strategies in our financial statements and better manages interest rate differentials between different countries. under this method, the change in fair value of the forward contract attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) is reported in stockholders equity to offset the translation results on the net investments. the remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion) is recognized in non-operating income, net. at may 31, 2006, we had one net investment hedge in japanese yen. the yen investment hedge minimizes currency risk arising from net assets held in yen as a result of equity capital raised during the initial public offering and secondary offering of oracle japan. the fair value of our yen investment hedge was nominal as of may 31, 2006 and 2005. the yen investment hedge has a notional amount of $595 million and an exchange rate of 111 yen per united states dollar. net gains (losses) on investment hedges reported in stockholders equity were $23 million, $(23) million and $(38) million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. net gains on investment hedges reported in non-operating income, net were $24 million, $14 million and $8 million in fiscal 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.risk factors 16 risk factors. manufacturing to produce our hardware systems products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of our enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. for all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. we distribute most of our hardware systems products either from our facilities or partner facilities. one of our main goals is to reduce costs by simplifying our manufacturing processes through increased standardization of components across product types, through a reduction of the number of assembly and distribution centers we rely on and through our transition to a build-to-order process in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. for example, we have a long-standing relationship with fujitsu limited for the development, manufacturing and marketing of certain of our sparc server components and products. refer to risk factors included in item 1a. of this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents 13 table of contents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $3.3 billion, $2.8 billion and $2.7 billion, in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, or 12% of total revenues in each of the aforementioned fiscal years. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan on continuing to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product offerings. employees as of may 31, 2010, we employed approximately 105,000 full-time employees, including approximately 24,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 5,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 26,000 in services, approximately 28,000 in research and development and approximately 12,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 39,000 were located in the united states and approximately 66,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president and director charles e. phillips, jr. president and director keith g. block executive vice president, north america sales and consulting jeff epstein executive vice president and chief financial officer john fowler executive vice president, systems thomas kurian executive vice president, product development loic le guisquet executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa (emea) sales and consulting luiz meisler executive vice president, latin america sales and consulting juergen rottler executive vice president, oracle customer services charles a. rozwat executive vice president mike splain executive vice president, microelectronics group derek h. williams executive vice president, japan sales and consulting dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 65, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 65, has served as the chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as an executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. 14 table of contents ms. catz, 48, has been a president since january 2004 and has served as a director since october 2001. she was chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. she served as an executive vice president from november 1999 to january 2004 and senior vice president from april 1999 to october 1999. she also serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. phillips, 51, has been a president and has served as a director since january 2004. he served as executive vice president, strategy, partnerships, and business development, from may 2003 to january 2004. he also serves as a director of viacom, inc. mr. block, 49, has been executive vice president, north america sales and consulting since september 2002. he served as executive vice president of north america consulting from february to september of 2002. he served as senior vice president of north america commercial consulting and global service lines from june 1999 until january 2002. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1985. mr. epstein, 53, has been executive vice president and chief financial officer since september 2008. prior to joining us, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer of oberon media, inc., a privately held internet game technology provider and publisher from april 2007 to june 2008. from june 2005 until its sale in march 2007, mr. epstein was executive vice president and chief financial officer of advo, inc., a direct mail media company. mr. epstein was a member of the board of directors of revonet, inc., a business-to-business marketing and database company, from january 2004 to december 2005, chairman of the board from december 2004 to december 2005 and the acting president and chief executive officer from june 2004 through december 2004. mr. epstein also serves as a director of priceline.com incorporated and serves on the audit and compliance committee of the stanford university hospital. mr. fowler, 49, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to joining us, mr. fowler served as sun microsystems, inc. executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006, as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004 and director, corporate development from july 2000 to july 2002. mr. kurian, 43, has been executive vice president, product development since july 2009. he served as senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. mr. le guisquet, 48, has been executive vice president, europe, middle east and africa (emea) sales and consulting since december 2008. he served as senior vice president, europe applications from june 2006 until november 2008. he served as senior vice president, oracle customer relationship management emea from january 2006 until june 2006. he served as senior vice president, emea consulting from august 2003 until january 2006. he also held various other emea regional executive positions with us since january 1990. mr. meisler, 57, has been executive vice president, latin america sales and consulting since july 2008. he served as senior vice president, latin america sales and consulting from december 2001 to july 2008; as vice president, latin america sales and consulting from june 2001 to december 2001; and as managing director of oracle brazil from january 2000 to may 2001. he served as vice president, latin america consulting from june 1999 to january 2000 and as vice president, oracle brazil consulting from march 1998 to may 1999. mr. rottler, 43, has been executive vice president, oracle customer services since september 2006. he was executive vice president, oracle support and oracle on demand, from january 2005 to september 2006 and was executive vice president, oracle on demand, from september 2004 to january 2005. mr. rozwat, 62, has served as executive vice president, product development from october 2007 to july 2009, as executive vice president, server technologies from november 1999 to october 2007 and as senior vice president, database server from december 1996 to october 1999. he served as vice president of development from december 1994 to november 1996. mr. splain, 53, has been executive vice president, microelectronics group since february 2010. prior to joining us, mr. splain served as sun executive vice president, microelectronics from april 2008 to february 2010, as 15 table of contents chief engineer from june 2006 to february 2010, as chief technology officer, systems group from june 2006 to april 2008, chief technology officer, scalable systems from march 2004 to june 2006, and chief technology officer, processor and network products from june 2002 to march 2004. mr. williams, 65, has been executive vice president, japan sales and consulting since june 2008 and was executive vice president, asia pacific sales and consulting from october 2000 to may 2008. he served as senior vice president, asia pacific from july 1993 to october 2000 and as vice president, asia pacific from april 1991 to july 1993. he joined oracle united kingdom in october 1988 and served as regional director, strategic accounts from october 1988 to april 1991. ms. daley, 51, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004, and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she joined oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 48, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. prior to joining us, he served as intuit inc. director of accounting from august 2005 to march 2007, as the gap, inc. assistant controller from april 2005 to august 2005, and as vice president, finance, at cadence design systems, inc. product business from june 2001 to april 2005. he also spent 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and global economic crisis, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; currency exchange rate fluctuations; the overall demand for enterprise software, hardware systems and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. the recent recession and global economic crisis caused a general tightening in the credit markets, lower levels of liquidity, increases in the rates of default and bankruptcy, and extreme volatility in credit, equity and fixed income markets. these macroeconomic developments negatively affected, and could continue to negatively affect, our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their it budgets or be unable to fund software, hardware systems or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in some financial markets, institutions may decrease or discontinue their purchase of the long-term customer financing contracts that we have traditionally sold on a non-recourse basis. as a result, we may hold more of these contracts ourselves or require more customers to purchase our products and services on a cash basis. 16 table of contents in addition, terrorist attacks around the world, the wars in afghanistan and iraq and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. our limited experience with managing our new hardware business and forecasting its future financial results creates additional challenges with our forecasting processes. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate and execute these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for at least one or two quarters following the acquisition, and potentially longer with respect to our acquisition of sun. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in our business practices that we implement with our newly acquired companies that may affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts and hardware systems products contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software license transactions, and to a lesser extent hardware systems products transactions, also increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. we may not achieve our financial forecasts with respect to our acquisition of sun or our entrance into a new hardware systems business, or the achievement of such forecasts may take longer than expected. our profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our acquisition and integration of sun. the acquisition and ongoing integration of sun into oracle may adversely affect our profitability if we do not manage the associated risks. we may not achieve the anticipated synergies, cost savings, customer and partner advantages and benefits or realize our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: prior to the acquisition of sun, we had limited or no direct experience in managing certain aspects of a hardware systems business. while we plan to retain a large number of sun engineers, salespeople and other employees with experience in managing this business, our inexperience or the unplanned departures of some important employees could adversely impact our ability to successfully manage our hardware systems business, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the forecasts for our hardware systems business and its results of operations. 17 table of contents our plans to reduce the costs associated with managing our hardware systems business, through expected efficiencies from, among other things, (i) changes in supply chain processes or in customer services and support or (ii) eliminations of redundancies in personnel, facilities or other services, may not be realized or completed within the expected time frame, if at all, or the anticipated cost savings may be less than what we forecast. we may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts, which could result in lower hardware systems or hardware systems support revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability. sun hardware systems business historically has had higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our standalone software business. upon completion of our acquisition of sun, we have reported, and may continue to report, lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues, and our profit margin levels prior to our acquisition of sun may not be sustainable. we face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than we had historically encountered in our existing software and services businesses, and higher amortization from, and potential impairment of, intangible assets associated with our hardware systems business. any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results. our senior management attention will be diverted from our software business to our hardware systems business, which may be disruptive to our software business or the overall management of oracle. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software and hardware systems markets in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or to enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew software license updates and product support or hardware systems support contracts. renewals of these support contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we are currently building and testing the next generation of our applications software offerings, which are being designed to unify the best-of-business functional capabilities from all of our applications on a modern internet-based middleware technology foundation. we have also recently designed and built the sun oracle database machine, a fast database warehousing machine that runs online transaction processing applications. if we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. our strategy of transitioning from sun indirect sales model to our mixed direct and indirect sales model may not succeed and could result in lower hardware systems revenues or profits. disruptions to our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. prior to our acquisition of sun, the majority of sun hardware systems products were sold through indirect channels. although we plan to continue to sell our hardware products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have begun enhancing direct sales coverage for our hardware products and intend that our direct sales force will sell a larger portion of our hardware products in the future than they do now. these direct sales efforts, however, may not be successful. our relationships with some of our channel partners may deteriorate because we 18 table of contents are reducing our reliance on some of these partners for sales of our hardware products, are modifying our approach and timing to the manufacturing of our products and are altering certain of sun legacy business practices with these channel partners, which could result in reduced demand from the channel partners or certain customer segments serviced by these channel partners. some hardware systems revenues from channel partners may not be replaced by revenues generated from our own sales personnel or be replaced as quickly as we expect. in addition, we may not be able to hire qualified hardware systems salespeople, sales consultants and other personnel for our direct sales model at the rate or in the numbers we need to generate the hardware systems revenues and profit margins we have projected for future periods. even if we can meet our hiring needs, these salespeople may not be able to achieve our sales forecasts for our hardware systems business. if we experience any of these risks, our hardware systems revenues or profits may decline. our software indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new hardware systems or software competitors, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed through fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, lower revenues or lower profits. our hardware systems business will compete with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers and (iii) providers of storage products. our entrance into the hardware systems business may also cause us to compete with companies who historically have been our partners. these competitors in most cases have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. furthermore, sun experienced increased competition during the pendency of our acquisition of sun. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our software offerings. in addition, several companies offer business process outsourcing (bpo) and software-as-a-service (saas) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware, and customer interest in bpo and saas solutions is increasing. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer bpo or saas solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware systems offerings are complex products. if we cannot successfully manage the required processes to meet customer requirements and demand on a timely basis, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware products are complicated processes. the development process is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation from both systems hardware and software product designers and engineers and the suppliers of the components used in these products. the development process is also lengthy and costly. once a new hardware product is developed, we face several 19 table of contents challenges in the manufacturing process. we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective manner. as we continue to transition to a build-to-order manufacturing model where our hardware products are not fully assembled until after customers place orders, we may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware products in anticipation of new hardware product releases. because the design and manufacturing process for components is also very complicated, it is possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws. these design or manufacturing flaws could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers. these types of component flaws could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results; we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support contracts and hardware systems support contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; 20 table of contents we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if it all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition; and to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware systems development, manufacturing, sales, customer support, consulting, on demand and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws such as the foreign corrupt practices act, and local laws which also prohibit corrupt payments to governmental officials, data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, import and trade restrictions, and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our international operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; regulatory changes; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; 21 table of contents longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. as a result of our entry into a new hardware systems business, the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to have increased. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control or obtain financial and other information on a timely basis. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. for example, our revenues and operating results in fiscal 2009 were unfavorably affected by the strengthening of the u.s. dollar relative to most other major foreign currencies. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries and distributors that we expect to cash settle in the near term, that are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures, which we may suspend from time to time. this program was active for the majority of fiscal 2010 and was suspended during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. when the program is active, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are variable. we will continue to experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances when we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program or where it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures. for example, if overall foreign currency exchange rates weakened subsequent to may 31, 2010, we believe we would recognize foreign currency losses related to cross-currency exposures that our foreign currency forward contracts program, when active, may be able to mitigate. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. for example, during fiscal 2010, we incurred foreign currency losses associated with our venezuelan subsidiary due to it being designated as operating in a highly inflationary economy and due to the subsequent devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar relative to the u.s. dollar. the future operating results of our hardware systems business will depend on our ability to manage our component inventory to meet the demands of our hardware systems customers and to avoid component inventory write-downs. sun hardware systems business has historically depended upon suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary components for its hardware products. while many of the components historically purchased have been standard, some components (standard or otherwise) have required long lead times to manufacture and deliver. furthermore, there are some components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology or other business constraints. at times we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or 22 table of contents quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, hardware product shipments could be delayed. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or systems products from our competitors. sun historically has negotiated supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure they had sufficient components for its hardware systems products to meet anticipated customer demand, and we initially expect to do the same. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we expect to continue to depend on third party manufacturers to build certain hardware systems products and are susceptible to manufacturing delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing and assembly of certain of our hardware products to a variety of manufacturing companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on third-party manufacturers reduces our control over the manufacturing process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs and product supply as well as the political and economic uncertainties of the international locations where certain of these third-party manufacturers have facilities and operations. any manufacturing disruption by our third-party manufacturers could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third-party manufacturers effectively, or if these third-party manufacturers experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their manufacturing operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship certain of our hardware systems products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed. we plan to simplify our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third party manufacturing partners on which sun had historically relied and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers will build our hardware systems products. we will therefore become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware systems business. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; 23 table of contents the functionality of products overlap; the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; and the volume of issued patents continues to increase. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. specific patent infringement cases are discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher prices. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our compensation program includes stock options, which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. 24 table of contents any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including saas providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing our revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for these and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our software products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other 25 table of contents hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing new software products or new versions of software products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, oracle on demand and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct internal business operations. end users, who rely on our software products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. in addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing and localizing software and hardware products is expensive, and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may face numerous risks in connection with our strategic alliance with fujitsu. prior to our acquisition of sun, sun had entered into a number of agreements with fujitsu limited with respect to collaborative sales and marketing efforts and the joint development and manufacturing of sun server products known as the advanced product line and branded as the sun sparc enterprise line of servers. the agreements contemplate that sun and fujitsu dedicate substantial financial and human resources to this relationship. as a result, the future performance of our hardware systems business may be impacted by the success or failure of this relationship. if we, as successors to sun, fail to satisfy certain development or supply obligations under the agreements, or if we otherwise violate the terms of the agreements, we may be subject to contractual or legal penalties. further, if fujitsu encounters potential problems in its business, such as intellectual property infringement claims, supply difficulties, or difficulties in meeting development milestones or financial challenges, these problems could impact our strategic relationship with fujitsu and could result in a material adverse effect on our hardware systems business. there can be no assurance that the strategic relationship with fujitsu will be successful, or that the economic terms of the agreements establishing the relationship will ultimately prove to be favorable to us. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our hardware systems business. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our on demand offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 26 table of contents there are risks associated with our outstanding indebtedness. as of may 31, 2010, we had an aggregate of $14.7 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between the remainder of calendar 2010 and calendar 2039, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, such as certain proposals by president obama administration, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities. our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we previously negotiated three successive unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the irs from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of the agreements. these agreements are effective for fiscal years through may 31, 2006. we have submitted to the irs a request for another renewal of this advance pricing agreement for the years ending may 31, 2007 through may 31, 2011. however, these agreements do not cover all elements of our transfer pricing and do not bind tax authorities outside the united states. we have finalized two bilateral advance pricing agreements, one of which was effective for the years ending may 31, 2002 through may 31, 2006 and we have submitted a request for a renewal of this agreement for the years ending may 31, 2007 through may 31, 2011. there can be no guarantee that such negotiations will result in an agreement. the additional bilateral agreement covers the period from june 1, 2001 through january 25, 2008. although we believe that our tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into a new hardware systems business resulting from our acquisition of sun, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. oracle on demand and crm on demand may not be successful. we offer oracle on demand outsourcing services for our applications and database technology, delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data 27 table of contents centers or customer facilities. we also offer crm on demand, which is a service offering that provides our customers with our crm software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues, develop them into profitable businesses or maintain their profitability. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our oracle on demand and crm on demand businesses in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. these businesses are subject to a variety of additional risks, including: we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through oracle on demand and crm on demand; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to oracle brand and future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information; we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance; the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services; demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks, international transfers of data, government or other third-party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers, computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings. environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our operations acquired from sun are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. we endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our product design, development, procurement and manufacturing costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our hardware systems business. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operation of our hardware systems business. a significant portion of sun hardware systems revenues historically has come from international sales. recent environmental legislation within the european union (eu), including the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs) and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive), as well as china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from eu countries and china as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. in addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 28 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with a number of large, diverse financial institutions worldwide which we believe mitigates certain risks. in addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, substantially all with relatively short maturities (see a description of our debt securities held in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements and liquidity and capital resources above). therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2010, total interest income was $122 million with our investments yielding an average 0.59% on a worldwide basis. this interest rate level was down by 164 basis points from 2.23% for fiscal 2009. if overall interest rates fell by 50 basis points from our average of 0.59% 74 table of contents during fiscal 2010, our annual interest income would decline by approximately $97 million, assuming consistent investment levels. the table below presents the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2010. the cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances are recorded at their fair values at may 31, 2010. may 31, 2010 (dollars in millions) fair value weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 9,914 0.75% marketable securities 8,555 0.46% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 18,469 0.62% interest expense risk our total borrowings were $14.7 billion as of may 31, 2010, all of which were fixed rate borrowings. in september 2009, we entered into certain fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate and related debt fair value exposures associated with our $1.5 billion of senior notes due july 2014 (2014 notes) so that the interest payable on the 2014 notes effectively became variable based on libor. we do not use interest rate swap arrangements for trading purposes. we have designated these swap agreements as qualifying instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to the fasb accounting standard for derivatives and hedging . these transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair values of our 2014 notes due to interest rate movements. the changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements will be recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. the amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amount included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings. the periodic interest settlements, which occur at the same intervals as the 2014 notes, are recorded as interest expense. by entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. our 2014 notes had an effective interest rate of 1.44% as of may 31, 2010, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2010, if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $15 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements. in may 2010, we repaid $1.0 billion of floating rate senior notes and settled the variable to fixed interest rate swap agreement that was used to manage the economic effect of variable interest obligations associated with such floating rate senior notes. foreign currency risk foreign currency transaction risk we transact business in various foreign currencies and are subject to risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. we have a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset these risks. our program may be suspended from time to time. this program was active for the majority of fiscal 2010 and was suspended during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010. when the program is active, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions that are expected to be cash settled in the near term. although we have suspended our historical foreign currency forward contract program as of may 31, 2010, our subsidiaries continue to enter into cross-currency transactions and create cross-currency exposures via intercompany arrangements and we expect that these transactions and exposures will continue. our ultimate 75 table of contents realized gain or loss with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. historically, we have not used foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes and have not designated these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we have recorded the fair value of these historical contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair value recorded to non-operating income (expense), net in our consolidated statement of operations. as of may 31, 2010, we estimate that certain of our u.s. dollar and euro functional subsidiaries have the equivalent of approximately $2.0 billion and approximately 410 million (approximately $500 million) of net intercompany receivables whereby the amounts to be received by these subsidiaries are in currencies other than u.s. dollars or euros, respectively, and are therefore subject to remeasurement as of each balance sheet date. as of may 31, 2010, we have no financial instruments in place to mitigate the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures. if overall foreign currency exchange rates weaken (strengthen) against both the u.s. dollar and euro by 10%, we estimate that we would incur approximately $250 million of remeasurement losses (gains) in connection with these intercompany balances assuming the balances remained constant with those as of may 31, 2010. net foreign exchange transaction (losses) gains included in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $(149) million, $(65) million and $17 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2010 were foreign currency losses relating to our venezuelan subsidiary operations, which are more thoroughly described under non-operating income (expense), net in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations above. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which may vary. foreign currency translation risk fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). periodically, we hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure and provide a discussion in foreign currency net investment risk below. as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2010, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for these subsidiaries as of may 31, 2010 declined relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2009. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008 was a (decrease) increase of $(107) million, $(501) million, and $437 million, respectively. the following table includes the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of may 31, 2010: (in millions) u.s. dollar equivalent at may 31, 2010 euro $ 1,310 japanese yen 867 chinese renminbi 788 british pound 566 indian rupee 513 canadian dollar 496 other foreign currencies 2,413 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 6,953 76 table of contents if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would increase by approximately $695 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances. foreign currency net investment risk periodically, we hedge net assets of certain of our international subsidiaries using foreign currency forward contracts to offset the translation and economic exposures related to our foreign currency-based investments in these subsidiaries. these contracts have been designated as net investment hedges pursuant to asc 815. we entered into these net investment hedges for all of fiscal 2009 and the majority of fiscal 2010. we suspended this program during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 and, as of may 31, 2010, we have no contracts outstanding. we used the spot method to measure the effectiveness of our net investment hedges. under this method for each reporting period, the change in fair value of the forward contracts attributable to the changes in spot exchange rates (the effective portion) was reported in accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet and the remaining change in fair value of the forward contract (the ineffective portion, if any) was recognized in non-operating income (expense), net, in our consolidated statement of operations. we recorded settlements under these forward contracts in a similar manner. the fair values of both the effective and ineffective portions were recorded to our consolidated balance sheet as prepaid expenses and other current assets for amounts receivable from the counterparties or other current liabilities for amounts payable to the counterparties. net gains (losses) on our net investment hedges reported in stockholders equity, net of tax effects, were $(131) million, $(41) million and $(53) million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. net gains on our net investment hedges reported in non-operating income (expense), net were $1 million, $10 million and $23 million in fiscal 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.risk factors 20 of this annual report. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partner network. the oracle partner network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software and hardware vendors, system integrators and resellers who deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. by offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the oracle partner network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. the majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers. we have enhanced direct sales coverage for our hardware systems products and intend that our direct sales force will sell proportionately more of our hardware systems products in the future than they do currently. seasonality and cyclicality our quarterly results reflect distinct seasonality in the sale of our products and services. our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. general economic conditions also have an impact on our business and financial results. the markets in which we sell our products and services have, at times, experienced weak economic conditions that have negatively affected our revenues. see selected quarterly financial data in item 7 of this annual report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses and margins. competition we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change. our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software and hardware systems, which has led increasingly to our product offerings being viewed as a stack of software and hardware designed to work together in a standards-compliant environment. our enterprise software and hardware offerings compete directly with some offerings from the most competitive companies in the world, including microsoft corporation (microsoft), international business machines corporation (ibm), hewlett-packard company (hp), sap ag, and intel, as well as many others. in addition, the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments regularly introduce new technologies and new and growing competitors to challenge our offerings. our competitors range from companies offering broad it solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. in addition, as we expand into new market segments, we will face increased competition as we will compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actions including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, or repositioning of product lines which invite even greater competition in one or more product categories. 16 table of contents key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of management and quality of technical support. our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus those of our competitors) are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other things: the broader platform competition between our industry standard java technology platform and the .net programming environment of microsoft; operating system competition among, primarily, our oracle solaris operating system, microsoft windows server, unix (including hp-ux from hp and aix from ibm) and linux; the adoption of saas, hosted or cloud software offerings; the adoption of commodity servers and microprocessors; the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers; products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their it staff; products, features or functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers. for more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to item 1a. risk factors. manufacturing to produce our hardware systems products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of our enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. for all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. we distribute most of our hardware systems products either from our facilities or partner facilities. our manufacturing processes are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a build-to-order methodology in which products are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. for example, we have a long-standing relationship with fujitsu limited for the development, manufacturing and marketing of certain of our sparc server components and products. as a result, we continue to monitor the situation in japan caused by the recent earthquake and tsunami and will continue to evaluate the resulting potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. refer to risk factors included in item 1a. of this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $4.5 billion, $3.3 billion and $2.8 billion in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively, or 13% of total revenues in fiscal 2011 and 12% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2010 and 2009. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings. 17 table of contents employees as of may 31, 2011, we employed approximately 108,000 full-time employees, including approximately 27,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 6,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 25,000 in services, approximately 30,000 in research and development and approximately 10,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 39,000 were located in the united states and approximately 69,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director mark v. hurd president and director john fowler executive vice president, systems thomas kurian executive vice president, product development dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 66, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 66, has served as chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. ms. catz, 49, has been a president since january 2004, chief financial officer most recently since april 2011 and has served as a director since october 2001. she was previously chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also currently serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 54, has been a president and served as a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hp from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hp from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. fowler, 50, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to joining us, mr. fowler served as sun microsystems, inc. executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006, as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004 and director, corporate development from july 2000 to july 2002. mr. kurian, 44, has been executive vice president, product development since july 2009. he served as senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. 18 table of contents ms. daley, 52, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004, and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she joined oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 49, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. prior to joining us, he served as intuit inc. director of accounting from august 2005 to march 2007. he also spent 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. 19 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in a rapidly changing economic and technological environment that presents numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. economic, political and market conditions, including the recent recession and global economic crisis, can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; the overall demand for enterprise software, hardware systems and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; general political developments; and currency exchange rate fluctuations. macroeconomic developments like the recent recessions in the u.s. and europe and the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund software, hardware systems or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters, including the earthquake and resulting tsunami in japan, continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. our limited experience with managing our new hardware business and forecasting its future financial results creates additional challenges with our forecasting processes. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or 20 table of contents revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition, and potentially longer with respect to our acquisition of sun microsystems, inc. (sun). conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in our business practices that we implement with our newly acquired companies that may affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts and hardware systems products contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software license transactions, and to a lesser extent hardware systems products transactions, also increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software and hardware systems markets in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet market demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew software license updates and product support or hardware systems support contracts. renewals of these support contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have recently released oracle fusion applications, the next generation of our applications software offerings, which are being designed to unify the best-of-business functional capabilities from all of our applications on a modern internet-based middleware technology foundation. we have also recently designed and built the exadata database machine, a fast database warehousing machine that runs online transaction processing applications, and the exalogic elastic cloud, an integrated cloud machine which has server hardware and middleware software that have been engineered together. if we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new hardware systems or software competitors, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed through fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, lower revenues or lower profits. our hardware systems business will compete with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers and (iii) providers of storage products. our hardware systems business may also cause us to compete with companies who historically have been our partners. these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products that compete with our software offerings. in addition, several companies offer software-as-a-service (saas) or cloud computing and business process 21 table of contents outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware, and customer interest in saas or cloud and bpo solutions is increasing. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer saas, cloud or bpo solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives, in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware systems offerings are complex products. if we cannot successfully manage the required processes to meet customer requirements and demand on a timely basis, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware systems products are complicated processes. the development process is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation from both systems hardware and software product designers and engineers and the suppliers of the components used in these products. the development process is also lengthy and costly. once a new hardware systems product is developed, we face several challenges in the manufacturing process. we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware systems products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware systems products are not fully assembled until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware systems products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware systems products in anticipation of new hardware systems product releases. because the design and manufacturing processes for components are also very complicated, it is possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws. these design or manufacturing flaws could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers. these types of component flaws could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. acquisitions present many risks, and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy, and we expect to continue to make similar acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results; we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; 22 table of contents we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support contracts and hardware systems support contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware systems development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting, cloud services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions, and export requirements. 23 table of contents violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions, and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our international operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; natural disasters, like the recent earthquake and resulting tsunami in japan; regulatory changes; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. as a result of our hardware systems business, the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to have increased. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware systems products segment and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control. we may not achieve our financial forecasts with respect to our acquisition of sun or our hardware systems business, or the achievement of such forecasts may take longer than expected. our profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our hardware systems business. our hardware systems business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we do not manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our acquisition of sun in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: our relative inexperience in managing a hardware systems business and related processes or the unplanned departures of some important employees could adversely impact our ability to successfully run our hardware systems business, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the forecasts for our hardware systems business and its results of operations; we may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts or such increase may take longer than we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability; 24 table of contents our hardware systems business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our software business. we have reported, and may continue to report, lower overall operating margins as a percentage of revenues, and we may not achieve our profit margin levels that we attained prior to our acquisition of sun; we face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than we had historically encountered in our existing software and services businesses, and higher amortization from, and potential impairment of, intangible assets associated with our hardware systems business. any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results; and we may forgo sales opportunities, customers and revenues as a result of our reducing the resale of third party products and services for which sun historically acted as a reseller. our strategy of transitioning to a mixed direct and indirect sales model for our hardware systems products may not succeed and could result in lower hardware revenues or profits. disruptions to our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. although we will continue to sell our hardware systems products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have enhanced our direct sales coverage for our hardware products and intend that our direct sales force will sell a larger portion of our hardware products in the future than they do now. these direct sales efforts, however, may not be successful. our relationships with some of our channel partners may deteriorate because we are reducing our reliance on some of these partners for sales of our hardware products, are modifying our approach and timing to the manufacturing of our products and are altering certain of sun legacy business practices with these channel partners, which could result in reduced demand from the channel partners or certain customer segments serviced by these channel partners. some hardware revenues from channel partners may not be replaced by revenues generated from our own sales personnel or may not be replaced as quickly as we expect. in addition, we may not be able to hire qualified hardware salespeople, sales consultants and other personnel for our direct sales model at the rate or in the numbers we need to generate the hardware revenues and profit margins we have projected for future periods. even if we can meet our hiring needs, these salespeople may not be able to achieve our sales forecasts for our hardware business. if we experience any of these risks, our hardware revenues or profits may decline. our software indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect revenues and our operating results. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program, which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures that we may suspend from time to time. this program was suspended for part of fiscal 2011 but was reactivated during our second quarter of fiscal 2011. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or 25 table of contents losses. although we have resumed our foreign currency forward contract program, a large portion of our consolidated operations are international and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program in the future. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. the future operating results of our hardware systems business will depend on our ability to manage our component inventory to meet the demands of our hardware systems customers and to avoid component inventory write-downs. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary components for our hardware products. while many of the components purchased are standard, some components (standard or otherwise) require long lead times to manufacture and deliver. furthermore, there are some components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by natural disasters such as the recent earthquake and tsunami in japan, political unrest or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, hardware systems product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware systems revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or systems products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we expect to continue to depend on third party manufacturers to build certain hardware systems products and third party logistics providers to deliver our products. as such, we are susceptible to manufacturing and logistics delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties of the international locations where certain of these third party manufacturers have facilities and operations. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and/or deliver certain of our hardware systems products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed. we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third party manufacturing partners on which sun had historically relied and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers build our 26 table of contents hardware systems products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware systems products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; and the volume of issued patents continues to increase. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. certain specific patent infringement cases are discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. 27 table of contents we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our compensation program includes stock options, which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through application service providers, including saas providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing our revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. we might experience significant errors or security flaws in our software products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software products frequently contain errors or security flaws, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any security flaws can be time 28 table of contents consuming and costly. errors in our software products could affect the ability of our products to work with other hardware or software products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing new software products or new versions of software products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, oracle cloud services and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any security flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct our business operations. end users, who rely on our software products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors and security vulnerabilities than customers for software products generally. software product errors and security flaws in our products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. in addition, we may be legally required to publicly report security breaches of our services, which could adversely impact future business prospects for those services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing software and hardware products is expensive, and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. we may face numerous risks in connection with our strategic alliance with fujitsu. oracle has had a relationship with fujitsu for many years. we have recently renegotiated a number of agreements with fujitsu limited with respect to collaborative sales and marketing efforts and the joint development and manufacturing of some of our server products. the agreements contemplate that oracle and fujitsu dedicate substantial financial and human resources and, as a result, the future performance of our hardware systems business may be impacted by the success or failure of this relationship. if we fail to satisfy certain development or supply obligations under the agreements, or if we otherwise violate the terms of the agreements, we may be subject to contractual or legal penalties. further, if fujitsu encounters potential problems in its business, such as intellectual property infringement claims, supply and manufacturing difficulties, including difficulties that may result from the recent earthquake and tsunami in japan, difficulties in meeting development milestones or financial challenges, these problems could impact our strategic relationship with fujitsu and could result in a material adverse effect on our hardware systems business. there can be no assurance that our strategic relationship with fujitsu will be successful, or that the economic terms of the agreements establishing the relationship will ultimately prove to be favorable to us. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our hardware systems business. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud services offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or information technology systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2011, we had an aggregate of $15.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between the remainder of calendar 2011 and calendar 2040, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. 29 table of contents we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and results cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities very often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, certain u.s. government proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. however, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our 2010 entry into a new hardware systems business resulting from our acquisition of sun, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. our oracle cloud services offerings, including oracle crm on demand, may not be successful. we offer oracle cloud services, which was formerly known as oracle on demand, and which include outsourcing software and hardware management and maintenance services delivered at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or customer facilities. our cloud services also include certain subscription-based software offerings such as oracle crm on demand, which provides our customers with our crm software functionality delivered via a hosted solution that we manage, among others. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain their profitability. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our cloud services in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. our cloud services offerings are subject to a variety of additional risks, including: we manage critical customer applications, data and other confidential information through oracle cloud services; accordingly, we face increased exposure to significant damage claims and risk to 30 table of contents oracle brand and future business prospects in the event of system failures, inadequate disaster recovery or loss or misappropriation of customer confidential information; we may face regulatory exposure in certain areas such as data privacy, data security and export compliance; the laws and regulations applicable to hosted service providers are unsettled, particularly in the areas of privacy and security and use of global resources; changes in these laws could affect our ability to provide services from or to some locations and could increase both the costs and risks associated with providing the services; demand for these services may not meet our expectations and may be affected by customer and media concerns about security risks, international transfers of data, government or other third party access to data, and/or use of outsourced services providers more generally; and our offerings may require large fixed costs for data centers, computers, network infrastructure, security and otherwise, and we may not be able to generate sufficient revenues to offset these costs and generate acceptable operating margins from these offerings. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for these and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our hardware systems operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. we endeavor to comply 31 table of contents with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our product design, development, procurement and manufacturing costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our hardware systems business. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties, and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries, and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our hardware systems business. a significant portion of our hardware systems revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation within the european union (eu), including the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs) and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive), as well as china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from eu countries and china as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. in addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us, and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with a number of large, diverse financial institutions worldwide which we believe mitigates certain risks. in addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, substantially all with relatively short maturities (see a description of our debt securities held in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements and liquidity and capital resources above). therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. 74 table of contents changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2011, total interest income was $163 million with our investments yielding an average 0.62% on a worldwide basis. the table below presents the fair value of our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2011 and 2010. may 31, 2011 2010 (dollars in millions) fair value weighted average interest rate fair value weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 16,163 0.61% $ 9,914 0.75% marketable securities 12,685 0.68% 8,555 0.46% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 28,848 0.64% $ 18,469 0.62% interest expense risk our total borrowings were $15.9 billion as of may 31, 2011, primarily all of which were fixed rate borrowings. future changes in interest rates and resulting changes in estimated fair values of our borrowings other than our senior notes due july 2014 (2014 notes) and short-term borrowings pursuant to our 2011 credit agreements would not impact the interest expense we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. we have entered into certain fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate and related fair value of our 2014 notes so that the interest payable on the 2014 notes effectively became variable based on libor. we do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. we have designated these swap agreements as qualifying instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging . these transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair values of our 2014 notes due to interest rate movements. the changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements will be recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. the amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amount included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings. the periodic interest settlements, which occur at the same intervals as the 2014 notes, are recorded as interest expense. by entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. our 2014 notes had an effective interest rate of 1.38% as of may 31, 2011, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2011, if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $15 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements. foreign currency risk foreign currency transaction risk we transact business in various foreign currencies and are subject to risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. we have a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset these risks. we may suspend this program from time to time and did so during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2010 until resuming the program in the second quarter of fiscal 2011. we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign 75 table of contents currency transactions. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees and other intercompany transactions that are expected to be cash settled in the near term. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for unrealized gains and other current liabilities for unrealized losses. the statement of operations classification of gains or losses upon changes in fair values or cash settlement of these forward contracts is non-operating income (expense), net. although we have resumed our foreign currency forward contract program, we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. as of may 31, 2011, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $2.5 billion and the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.6 billion. the net unrealized gains of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2011. as of may 31, 2010, we had a nominal amount of foreign currency forward contracts outstanding. net foreign exchange transaction gains (losses) included in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $11 million, $(149) million and $(65) million in fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009, respectively. included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2010 were foreign currency losses relating to our venezuelan subsidiary operations, which are more thoroughly described under non-operating income (expense), net in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations above. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which may vary. foreign currency translation risk fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). periodically, we may hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. 76 table of contents as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2011, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for these subsidiaries as of may 31, 2011 increased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2010. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2011, 2010 and 2009 was an increase (decrease) of $600 million, $(107) million and $(501) million, respectively. the following table includes the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of may 31, 2011: (in millions) u.s. dollar equivalent at may 31, 2011 euro $ 993 chinese renminbi 775 indian rupee 749 japanese yen 530 south african rand 492 british pound 436 other foreign currencies 2,934 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 6,909 if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would decrease by approximately $691 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances.risk factors 21 of this annual report. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partner network. the oracle partner network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software and hardware vendors, system integrators and resellers that deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. by offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the oracle partner network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. the majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels including independent distributors and value added resellers. seasonality and cyclicality our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. the operating margins of our businesses are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses segment) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. see selected quarterly financial data in item 7 of this annual report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses and margins. competition we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change. our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software and hardware systems. our enterprise software and hardware offerings compete directly with some offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, including microsoft corporation (microsoft), international business machines corporation (ibm), intel, hewlett-packard company (hp) and sap ag, and smaller companies like salesforce.com, as well as many others. in addition, the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments regularly introduce new technologies and new and growing competitors to challenge our offerings. our competitors range from companies offering broad it solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. in addition, as we expand into new market segments, we will face increased competition as we will compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actions including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, or repositioning of product lines which invite even greater competition in one or more product categories. key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of management and quality of technical support. our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus those of our competitors) are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other things: the adoption of saas, hosted or cloud software offerings; the adoption of commodity servers and microprocessors; 18 table of contents the broader platform competition between our industry standard java technology platform and the .net programming environment of microsoft; operating system competition among, primarily, our oracle solaris operating system, microsoft windows server, unix (including hp-ux from hp and aix from ibm) and linux; the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers; products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their it staff; products, features or functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers. for more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to item 1a. risk factors. manufacturing to produce our hardware systems products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of final assembly, test and quality control of our enterprise and data center servers and storage systems. for substantially all other manufacturing, we rely on third party manufacturing partners. we distribute most of our hardware systems products either from our facilities or partner facilities. our manufacturing processes are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a build-to-order methodology in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. as a result, we continue to evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. refer to risk factors included in item 1a. within this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $4.5 billion in each of fiscal 2012 and 2011 and $3.3 billion in fiscal 2010, or 12%, 13% and 12% of total revenues in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings. employees as of may 31, 2012, we employed approximately 115,000 full-time employees, including approximately 30,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 6,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 26,000 in services, approximately 32,000 in research and development and approximately 11,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 42,000 were located in the united states and approximately 73,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. 19 table of contents available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information posted on our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director mark v. hurd president and director john fowler executive vice president, systems thomas kurian executive vice president, product development dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 67, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 67, has served as chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. ms. catz, 50, has been a president since january 2004, chief financial officer most recently since april 2011 and has served as a director since october 2001. she was previously chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also currently serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 55, has been a president and served as a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hp from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hp from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. fowler, 51, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to joining us, mr. fowler served as sun microsystems, inc. executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006, as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004 and director, corporate development from july 2000 to july 2002. mr. kurian, 45, has been executive vice president, product development since july 2009. he served as senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. ms. daley, 53, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004, and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 50, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. 20 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; the overall demand for enterprise software, hardware systems and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; general political developments; and currency exchange rate fluctuations. macroeconomic developments like the debt crisis in certain countries in the european union and slowing economies in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund software, hardware systems or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software license revenues and hardware systems products revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. our limited experience with managing our hardware business and forecasting its future financial results creates additional challenges with our forecasting processes. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a contraction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for 21 table of contents newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in our business practices that we implement with our newly acquired companies that may affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software license revenue contracts and hardware systems products contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are large orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software license transactions, and to a lesser extent hardware systems products transactions, also increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software and hardware systems markets in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not buy new software licenses or hardware systems products or purchase or renew software license updates and product support or hardware systems support contracts. renewals of these support contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have released oracle fusion applications, the next generation of our applications software offerings, which are designed to unify the best-of-business functional capabilities from all of our applications on an open-standards-based technology foundation accessible by customers through the cloud or on-premise. we have also recently designed and built our oracle engineered systems product offerings including oracle exadata database machine, a fast database warehousing machine that runs online transaction processing applications; oracle exalogic elastic cloud, an integrated cloud machine which has server hardware and middleware software that have been engineered together; oracle exalytics in-memory machine, an engineered system featuring in-memory software and hardware and an optimized business intelligence platform; and sparc supercluster, an engineered system which combines optimized database performance with accelerated middleware processing capabilities; among others. if we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if there are changes in information technology trends for which we do not adequately anticipate or react our product development efforts toward, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new hardware systems or software competitors, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed through fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, lower revenues or lower profits. our hardware systems business will compete with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers and (iii) providers of storage products. our hardware systems business may also cause us to compete with companies who historically have been our partners. these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors 22 table of contents platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, amongst others, that compete with our software offerings. in addition, several companies offer software-as-a-service (saas) or cloud computing and business process outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware, and customer interest in cloud or saas solutions is increasing. some of these competitors have greater financial or technical resources than we do. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer saas, cloud or bpo solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware systems offerings are complex products. if we cannot successfully manage the required processes to meet customer requirements and demand on a timely basis, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware systems products are complicated processes. the development process is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation from both systems hardware and software product designers and engineers and the suppliers of the components used in these products. the development process is also lengthy and costly. once a new hardware systems product is developed, we face several challenges in the manufacturing process. we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware systems products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware systems products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware systems products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware systems products in anticipation of new hardware systems product releases. because the design and manufacturing processes for components are also very complicated, it is possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws. these design or manufacturing flaws could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers. these types of component flaws could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results; we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; 23 table of contents our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support contracts, hardware systems support contracts and cloud software subscription contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies or products with our existing product lines and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. 24 table of contents our hardware systems revenues and profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our hardware systems business. our hardware systems business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we do not manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware systems business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: our relative inexperience in managing a hardware systems business and related processes or the unplanned departures of some important employees could adversely impact our ability to successfully run our hardware systems business, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the forecasts for our hardware systems business and its results of operations; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems products like oracle exadata database machine, oracle exalogic elastic cloud and oracle exalytics in-memory machine, which are in the relatively early stages of adoption by our customers, and our de-emphasis on our lower profit margin commodity hardware systems products that historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware systems revenues; we may forgo sales opportunities, customers and revenues as a result of our reducing the resale of third party products and services for which sun microsystems, inc. (sun) historically acted as a reseller; we may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts or such increase may take longer than we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability; our hardware systems business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our software business. we have reported lower overall operating margins as a percentage of revenues in the past and we may report lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues in the future; and we face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than we had historically encountered in our existing software and services businesses and higher amortization from, and potential impairment of, intangible assets associated with our hardware systems business. any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results. our strategy of transitioning to a mixed direct and indirect sales model for our hardware systems products may not succeed and could result in lower hardware revenues or profits. disruptions to our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. although we will continue to sell our hardware systems products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have enhanced our direct sales coverage for our hardware products and intend that our direct sales force will sell a larger portion of our hardware products in the future than they do now. these direct sales efforts, however, may not be successful. our relationships with some of our channel partners may deteriorate because we are reducing our reliance on some of these partners for sales of our hardware products, are modifying our approach and timing to the manufacturing of our products and have altered certain of sun legacy business practices with these channel partners, which could result in reduced demand from the channel partners or certain customer segments serviced by these channel partners. some hardware revenues from channel partners may not be replaced by revenues generated from our own sales personnel or may not be replaced as quickly as we expect. in addition, we may not be able to hire qualified hardware salespeople, sales consultants and other personnel for our direct sales model at the rate or in the numbers we need to generate the hardware revenues and profit margins we have projected for future periods. even if we can meet our hiring needs, these salespeople may not be able to achieve our sales forecasts for our hardware business. if we experience any of these risks, our hardware revenues and/or profits may decline. our software indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into 25 table of contents strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant or if the financial condition of our channel participants were to weaken. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware systems development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting, managed cloud services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our international operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; natural disasters; regulatory changes; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. as a result of our hardware systems business, the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to have increased. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware systems products segment and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control. the future operating results of our hardware systems business will depend on our ability to manage our component inventory to meet the demands of our hardware systems customers and to avoid component inventory write-downs. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis 26 table of contents the necessary components for our hardware products. while many of the components purchased are standard, some components (standard or otherwise) require long lead times to manufacture and deliver. furthermore, there are some components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by natural disasters, political unrest or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, hardware systems product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware systems revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or systems products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we expect to continue to depend on third party manufacturers to build certain hardware systems products and third party logistics providers to deliver our products. as such, we are susceptible to manufacturing and logistics delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third party manufacturers have facilities and operations. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and/or deliver certain of our hardware systems products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed. we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers build our hardware systems products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware systems products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our revenues and operating results. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are 27 table of contents charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures that we may suspend from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and the proliferation of non-practicing entities asserting intellectual property infringement claims increases. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 28 table of contents we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our compensation program includes stock options, which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted options, a reduction in the number of options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients subject us to risks including early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. our federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels are subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software license fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through cloud and saas providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing our revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. 29 table of contents our cloud computing strategy, including our oracle cloud and oracle managed cloud services offerings, may not be successful. we offer customers a broad portfolio of software and hardware products and services to enable a roadmap for customers to adopt cloud computing. oracle cloud includes our cloud software subscription offerings such as oracle fusion human capital management cloud service, oracle fusion customer relationship management cloud service, oracle rightnow customer experience and oracle taleo talent management cloud service, among others, all of which provide our customers with certain of our software applications functionality within a cloud-based it environment that we manage and offer via a subscription-based model. in addition, oracle cloud also includes software platforms within a cloud-based it environment that we manage and offer to customers via a subscription-based model including oracle database cloud service and oracle java cloud service. oracle managed cloud services include software and hardware management and maintenance services hosted at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. these business models continue to evolve and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain their profitability. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our managed cloud services and cloud software subscription offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. demand for our cloud software subscription offerings may unfavorably impact demand for certain of our other products and services including new software licenses and software license updates and product support services. if our data protection or other security measures are compromised and as a result our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the information technology business, and our products and services store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data as well as our own. we have a reputation for secure and reliable software and hardware products and services and have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and internal and external data that we manage. nevertheless, computer hackers will attempt to penetrate or bypass our data protection and other security measures and gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems and data or compromise the confidential information or data of our customers. computer hackers may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers data or our it systems. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects other software and hardware companies, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular or well-known it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks for us will increase as we continue to grow our cloud-based offerings and services and store and process increasingly large amounts of our customers confidential information and data and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these acquisitions within oracle. if a cyberattack or other security incident described above were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers data or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer damage to our brand and reputation. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and 30 table of contents services and perceive them to be not secure. this in turn could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. further, as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the protection of personal information expand and become more complex, these potential risks to our business will intensify. changes in laws or regulations associated with the protection of certain types of data, such as healthcare data or other personally identifiable information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services. our periodic workforce restructurings can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, sales force and other restructurings have generally resulted in a temporary lack of focus and reduced productivity. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues could be negatively affected. we might experience significant errors in our software and hardware products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software and hardware products sometimes contain errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any errors can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software or hardware products could affect the ability of our products to work with other software or hardware products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our new software or hardware products or new versions of our software or hardware products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations, cloud software subscription offerings, oracle managed cloud services and other outsourcing services, support and consulting services, on our products and networks and any flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct our business operations. end users, who rely on our software products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors than customers for software products generally. errors in our software and hardware products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing software and hardware products is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud software subscription and managed cloud services offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations and results cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. 31 table of contents we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, certain u.s. government proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. however, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions which we consider to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states that have lower statutory tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into the hardware systems business, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; 32 table of contents charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2012, we had an aggregate of $16.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between the remainder of calendar 2012 and calendar 2040 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our hardware systems operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products, human health and safety and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. we endeavor to comply with these environmental laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our product design, development, procurement and manufacturing costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our hardware systems business. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our hardware systems business. a significant portion of our hardware systems revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation within the european union (eu), including the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs) and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive), as well as china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from eu countries and china as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. in addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 33 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with a number of large, diverse financial institutions worldwide, which we believe mitigates certain risks. in addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, all of which have maturity dates, if any, within two years from the date of purchase (see a description of our debt securities held in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2012, total interest income was $231 million with our investments yielding an average 0.72% on a worldwide basis. the table below presents the fair values of our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2012 and 2011. may 31, 2012 2011 (dollars in millions) fair value weighted average interest rate fair value weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 14,955 0.61% $ 16,163 0.61% marketable securities 15,721 0.80% 12,685 0.68% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 30,676 0.71% $ 28,848 0.64% interest expense risk our total borrowings were $16.5 billion as of may 31, 2012, all of which were fixed rate borrowings. future changes in interest rates and resulting changes in estimated fair values of our borrowings other than our senior notes due july 2014 (2014 notes) and short-term borrowings pursuant to our 2012 credit agreement would not impact the interest expense we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. we have entered into certain fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate and related fair value of our 2014 notes so that the interest payable on the 2014 notes effectively became variable based on libor. we do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. we have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging . these transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair value of our fixed rate borrowings due to benchmark interest rate movements. the changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements are recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. the amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amount included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings. the periodic interest settlements for the swap agreements, which occur at the same interval as those per the 2014 notes, are recorded as interest expense. by entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. our 2014 notes had an effective interest rate of 1.39% as of may 31, 2012, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. changes in the overall level of 76 table of contents interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2012, if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $15 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements. foreign currency risk foreign currency transaction risk we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions that are expected to be cash settled in the near term. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income (expense), net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. as of may 31, 2012 and 2011, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $873 million and $1.6 billion, respectively. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2012 and 2011. net foreign exchange transaction gains (losses) included in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $(105) million, $11 million and $(149) million in fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively. included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2010 were foreign currency losses relating to our venezuelan subsidiary operations, which are more thoroughly described under non-operating income (expense), net in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations above. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which may vary. foreign currency translation risk fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive income on our consolidated balance sheet). periodically, we may hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2012, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for these subsidiaries as of may 31, 2012 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2011. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on 77 table of contents our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2012, 2011 and 2010 was a (decrease) increase of $(471) million, $600 million and $(107) million, respectively. the following table includes estimates of the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of may 31, 2012: (in millions) u.s. dollar equivalent at may 31, 2012 euro $ 1,302 chinese renminbi 930 indian rupee 814 japanese yen 760 australian dollar 712 south african rand 329 canadian dollar 259 british pound 258 other foreign currencies 2,002 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 7,366 if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would decrease by approximately $737 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances.risk factors 15 of this annual report. a summary of our domestic and international revenues and long-lived assets is set forth in note 16 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we also market our products worldwide through indirect channels. the companies that comprise our indirect channel network are members of the oracle partner network. the oracle partner network is a global program that manages our business relationships with a large, broad-based network of companies, including independent software and hardware vendors, system integrators and resellers that deliver innovative solutions and services based upon our products. by offering our partners access to our premier products, educational information, technical services, marketing and sales support, the oracle partner network program extends our market reach by providing our partners with the resources they need to be successful in delivering solutions to customers globally. the majority of our hardware systems products are sold through indirect channels including independent distributors and value added resellers. seasonality and cyclicality our quarterly revenues have historically been affected by a variety of seasonal factors, including the structure of our sales force incentive compensation plans, which are common in the technology industry. our total revenues and operating margins are typically highest in our fourth fiscal quarter and lowest in our first fiscal quarter. the operating margins of our businesses are generally affected by seasonal factors in a similar manner as our revenues (in particular, our new software licenses and cloud software subscriptions segment) as certain expenses within our cost structure are relatively fixed in the short term. see selected quarterly financial data in item 7 of this annual report for a more complete description of the seasonality and cyclicality of our revenues, expenses and margins. competition we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as customer demands and competitive pressures otherwise change. our customers are demanding less complexity and lower total cost in the implementation, sourcing, integration and ongoing maintenance of their enterprise software and hardware systems. our enterprise software and hardware offerings compete directly with some offerings from some of the largest and most competitive companies in the world, including microsoft corporation (microsoft), international business machines corporation (ibm), intel, hewlett-packard company (hp) and sap ag and smaller companies like salesforce.com, inc., as well as many others. in addition, the low barriers to entry in many of our market segments regularly introduce new technologies and new and growing competitors to challenge our offerings. our competitors range from companies offering broad it solutions across many of our lines of business to vendors providing point solutions, or offerings focused on a specific functionality, product area or industry. in addition, as we expand into new market segments, we will face increased competition as we will compete with existing competitors, as well as firms that may be partners in other areas of our business and other firms with whom we have not previously competed. moreover, we or our competitors may take certain strategic actions including acquisitions, partnerships and joint ventures, or repositioning of product lines which invite even greater competition in one or more product categories. key competitive factors in each of the segments in which we currently compete and may compete in the future include: total cost of ownership, performance, scalability, reliability, security, functionality, efficiency, ease of management and quality of technical support. our product sales (and the relative strength of our products versus those of our competitors) are also directly and indirectly affected by the following, among other things: the adoption of software-as-a-service (saas), hosted or cloud software offerings; the adoption of commodity servers and microprocessors; the broader platform competition between our industry standard java technology platform and the .net programming environment of microsoft; 13 table of contents operating system competition among our oracle solaris and linux operating systems with alternatives including microsoft windows server, and other unix and linux operating systems; the adoption of open source alternatives to commercial software by enterprise software customers; products, features and functionality developed internally by customers and their it staff; products, features or functionality customized and implemented for customers by consultants, systems integrators or other third parties; and attractiveness of offerings from business processing outsourcers. for more information about the competitive risks we face, refer to item 1a. risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. manufacturing to produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our oracle engineered systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers, storage systems and networking products. for all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. we distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. our manufacturing processes are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a build-to-order methodology in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. as a result, we continue to evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. refer to risk factors included in item 1a. within this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $4.9 billion in fiscal 2013 and $4.5 billion in each of fiscal 2012 and 2011, or 13%, 12% and 13% of total revenues in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings. employees as of may 31, 2013, we employed approximately 120,000 full-time employees, including approximately 33,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 6,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 25,000 in services, approximately 35,000 in research and development and approximately 11,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 43,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 77,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries workers councils represent our employees. 14 table of contents available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information posted on or accessible through our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director mark v. hurd president and director john fowler executive vice president, systems thomas kurian executive vice president, product development dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 68, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 68, has served as chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. ms. catz, 51, has been a president since january 2004, chief financial officer most recently since april 2011 and has served as a director since october 2001. she was previously chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also currently serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 56, has been a president and served as a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hp from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hp from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. fowler, 52, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to joining us, mr. fowler served as sun microsystems, inc. executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006 and as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004. mr. kurian, 46, has been executive vice president, product development since july 2009. he served as senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. ms. daley, 54, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 51, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates 15 table of contents discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; the overall demand for enterprise software, hardware systems and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; general political developments; and currency exchange rate fluctuations. macroeconomic developments like the ongoing economic crisis in the european union, the continued slow pace of economic recovery in the united states and slowing economic conditions in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results or financial condition which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. in addition, there is significant focus in the united states on the overall reduction in government spending at the federal level known as sequestration that has recently gone into effect. a general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce their information technology (it) budgets or be unable to fund software, hardware systems or services purchases, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in regions like the middle east, terrorist attacks around the globe and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, and particularly our new software licenses revenues and hardware systems products revenues, are difficult to forecast, and, as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. our limited experience with managing our hardware business and forecasting its future financial results creates additional challenges with our forecasting processes. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in our business practices that we implement with our newly acquired companies that may affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software licenses revenue contracts and hardware systems products contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the 16 table of contents number of large new software licenses transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware systems products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. our hardware systems revenues and profitability could decline further if we do not manage the risks associated with our hardware systems business. our hardware systems business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we do not effectively manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware systems business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: as we develop and introduce new versions or next generations of our hardware systems products, customers may defer or delay purchases of existing hardware systems products and wait for these new releases, all of which could adversely affect our hardware systems revenues in the short term; our hardware systems business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our software business. we have reported lower overall operating margins as a percentage of revenues in the past and we may report lower operating margins as a percentage of revenues in the future; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems, such as our oracle exadata database machine, oracle exalogic elastic cloud and oracle sparc supercluster products, which are in the relatively early stages of adoption by our customers, and our de-emphasis on our lower profit margin commodity hardware systems products that historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware systems revenues; the unplanned departures of some important employees could adversely impact our ability to run successfully our hardware systems business, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the forecasts for our hardware systems business and its results of operations; we face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than we had historically encountered in our existing software and services businesses, higher amortization from intangible assets, and potential impairment of intangible assets and goodwill associated with our hardware systems business. any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results; we may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts or such increase may take longer than we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability; and we may forgo sales opportunities, customers and revenues as a result of our reducing the resale of third party products and services for which sun microsystems, inc. (sun) historically acted as a reseller. our periodic workforce restructurings, including reorganizations of our sales force, can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. for example, in fiscal 2013, we hired a significant number of new people to our direct sales force and reorganized the various sales teams so that they increased their focus on specific products and services and became more specialized. in the past, these types of sales force restructurings have resulted in temporary reduced productivity while the sales teams adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. our strategy of transitioning to a mixed direct and indirect sales model for our hardware systems products may not succeed and could result in lower hardware revenues or profits. disruptions to our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. although we will continue to sell our hardware systems products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have enhanced our direct sales coverage for our hardware products and intend that our direct sales force will sell a larger portion of our hardware products in the future than they do now. these direct sales efforts, however, may not be successful. our relationships with some of our channel partners may deteriorate because we have reduced our reliance on some of these partners for sales of our hardware products and have modified our approach and timing to the manufacturing of our products, which could result in reduced demand from the channel partners or certain customer segments serviced by these channel partners. some hardware revenues from channel partners may not be replaced by revenues generated from our own sales personnel or may not be replaced as quickly as we 17 table of contents expect. in addition, these newly hired salespeople may not be able to achieve our sales forecasts for our hardware business. if we experience any of these risks, our hardware revenues and profits may decline. our software indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. our cloud computing strategy, including our oracle cloud and oracle managed cloud services offerings, may not be successful. we offer customers a broad portfolio of software and hardware products and services to enable customers to adopt a cloud computing strategy that is right for them. oracle cloud is a comprehensive set of cloud service offerings that is designed to provide customers and partners with access to application services, social networking services, platform services and common infrastructure services on a subscription basis and managed, hosted and supported by oracle. oracle managed cloud services include software and hardware management and maintenance services hosted at our data center facilities, select partner data centers or physically on-premise at customer facilities. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain their profitability. we have acquired other cloud computing companies and incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our managed cloud services and cloud software subscriptions offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. demand for our cloud offerings may unfavorably impact demand for certain of our other products and services, including new software licenses and software license updates and product support services. if our data protection or other security measures are compromised and as a result our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the information technology business, and our products and services store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data as well as our own. we have a reputation for secure and reliable software and hardware products and services and have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and internal and external data that we manage. nevertheless, we encounter attempts by third parties to penetrate or bypass our data protection and other security measures and gain unauthorized access to our networks, systems and data or compromise the confidential information or data of our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers data or our it systems. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects other software and hardware companies, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most popular or well-known it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks for us will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and services and store and process increasingly large amounts of our customers confidential information and data and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these acquisitions within oracle. if a cyber attack or other security incident described above were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers data or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer damage to our brand and reputation. customers could lose 18 table of contents confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services and perceive them to be not secure. this in turn could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. further, as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the protection of personal information expand and become more complex, these potential risks to our business will intensify. changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personally identifiable information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the enterprise software and hardware systems industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, or enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or to position and/or price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not buy new software licenses, cloud software subscriptions or hardware systems products or purchase or renew software license updates and product support or hardware systems support contracts. renewals of these support contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our software and hardware products and services, including our oracle cloud and oracle engineered systems offerings. if we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames, if there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service, if there are changes in information technology trends for which we do not adequately anticipate or react our product development efforts toward, if we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services or if we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services, our business may be adversely affected. if we are unable to compete effectively with existing or new hardware systems or software competitors, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed through fewer customer orders, reduced pricing, lower revenues or lower profits. our hardware systems business will compete with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers and (iii) providers of storage products. our hardware systems business may also cause us to compete with companies who historically have been our partners. some of these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, amongst others, that compete with our software offerings. in addition, several companies offer software-as-a-service (saas) or cloud computing and business process outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware, and customer interest in cloud or saas solutions is increasing. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. vendors that offer saas, cloud or bpo solutions may persuade our customers not to purchase our on-premise products. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. 19 table of contents acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business or (ii) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software license updates and product support contracts, hardware systems support contracts and cloud subscription contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; 20 table of contents to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware systems development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting, managed cloud services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; natural disasters; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries such as venezuela that have led to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country currency; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. as a result of our hardware systems business, the number and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to have increased. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware systems products segment and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control. 21 table of contents our hardware systems offerings are complex products. if we cannot successfully manage the required processes to meet customer requirements and demand on a timely basis, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware systems products are complicated processes. the development process is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation from both systems hardware and software product designers and engineers and the suppliers of the components used in these products. the development process is also lengthy and costly. once a new hardware systems product is developed, we face several challenges in the manufacturing process. we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware systems products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware systems products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware systems products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware systems products in anticipation of new hardware systems product releases. because the design and manufacturing processes for components are also very complicated, it is possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws. these design or manufacturing flaws could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers. these types of component flaws could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. the future operating results of our hardware systems business will depend on our ability to manage our component inventory to meet the demands of our hardware systems customers and to avoid component inventory write-downs. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary components for our hardware products. while many of the components purchased are standard, some components (standard or otherwise) require long lead times to manufacture and deliver. furthermore, there are some components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by natural disasters, political unrest or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, hardware systems product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware systems revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or systems products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we expect to continue to depend on third party manufacturers to build certain hardware systems products and third party logistics providers to deliver our products. as such, we are susceptible to manufacturing and logistics delays that could prevent us from shipping customer orders on time, if at all, and may result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third party manufacturers have facilities and operations. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and/or deliver certain of our hardware systems products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed. 22 table of contents we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers build our hardware systems products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware systems products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our assets, revenues and operating results. generally, our revenues are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. generally, our assets are adversely affected when we must devalue our cash and other bank deposits held in a foreign currency due to fluctuations or changes in exchange rates. during fiscal 2013 and 2010, we incurred foreign currency losses associated with our venezuelan subsidiary due to it being designated as operating in a highly inflationary economy and due to the subsequent devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar relative to the u.s. dollar. we could experience similar foreign currency volatility in the future if the venezuelan government further devalues the venezuelan currency, the amounts and timing of which are uncertain. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures that we may suspend from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows, the timing of which is variable and generally outside of our control. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; 23 table of contents the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and the proliferation of non-practicing entities asserting intellectual property infringement claims increases. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise is available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our compensation program includes stock options, which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted stock options, a reduction in the number of stock options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation, all of which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and also impact the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients subject us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending, including a series of spending cuts at the u.s. federal level known as sequestration that has recently gone into effect and which may cause a reduction in revenues from our u.s. federal government customers. further, our u.s. federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels in the u.s. and our contracts with foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. 24 table of contents we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software licenses fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our new license prices. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. additionally, increased distribution of applications through cloud and saas providers, may reduce the average price for our products or adversely affect other sales of our products, reducing our revenues unless we can offset price reductions with volume increases. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we might experience significant errors in our software and hardware products and services. despite testing prior to their release, software and hardware products sometimes contain errors, especially when first introduced or when new versions are released. the detection and correction of any errors can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software or hardware products could affect the ability of our products to work with other software or hardware products, could delay the development or release of new products or new versions of products and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our new software or hardware products or new versions of our software or hardware products, we could lose revenues. in addition, we run our own business operations and run the cloud software subscriptions, oracle managed cloud services and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore any flaws, if exploited, could affect our ability to conduct our business operations. end users, who rely on our software products and services for applications that are critical to their businesses, may have a greater sensitivity to product errors than customers for software products generally. errors in our software and hardware products or services could expose us to product liability, performance and/or warranty claims as well as harm our reputation, which could impact our future sales of products and services. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing software and hardware products is expensive and the investment in product development often involves a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product opportunities. accelerated product introductions and short product life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud software subscriptions and managed cloud services offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management attention away from the running of our business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. 25 table of contents changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, certain u.s. government proposals for fundamental u.s. international tax reform, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. however, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions which we consider to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states that have lower statutory tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into the hardware systems business, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, in particular within our hardware systems products or consulting reporting units, for which the amounts of goodwill and intangible assets that we have recorded increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future, and for which we have experienced revenues and margin declines as compared to prior years; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results resulting from expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). 26 table of contents there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2013, we had an aggregate of $18.5 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between the remainder of calendar 2013 and calendar 2040 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our hardware systems operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used to manufacture our products, human health and safety, regulating the use of certain chemical substances and disclosure of the use of certain conflict minerals. we endeavor to comply with these environmental and other laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our hardware systems business. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our hardware systems business. a significant portion of our hardware systems revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation within the european union (eu), including the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs) and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive), as well as china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from eu countries and china as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. in addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 68 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and money market investments are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide, which we believe mitigates certain risks. in addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, approximately 91% of which have maturity dates within one year of may 31, 2013 (see a description of our debt securities held in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). therefore, interest rate movements generally do not materially affect the valuation of our debt security investments. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2013, total interest income was $237 million with our investments yielding an average 0.71% on a worldwide basis. the table below presents the approximate fair values of our cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2013 and 2012. may 31, 2013 2012 (dollars in millions) fair value weighted average interest rate fair value weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 14,613 0.50% $ 14,955 0.61% marketable securities 17,603 0.88% 15,721 0.80% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 32,216 0.71% $ 30,676 0.71% interest expense risk our total borrowings were $18.5 billion as of may 31, 2013, all of which were fixed rate borrowings. future changes in interest rates and resulting changes in estimated fair values of our borrowings other than our senior notes due july 2014 (2014 notes) would not impact the interest expense we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. we have entered into certain fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements to manage the interest rate and related fair value of our 2014 notes so that the interest payable on the 2014 notes effectively became variable based on libor. we do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. we have designated these swap agreements as qualifying hedging instruments and are accounting for them as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging . these transactions are characterized as fair value hedges for financial accounting purposes because they protect us against changes in the fair value of our 2014 notes due to benchmark interest rate movements. the changes in fair values of these interest rate swap agreements are recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amounts included in other assets or other non-current liabilities in our consolidated balance sheets. the amount of net gain (loss) attributable to the risk being hedged is recognized as interest expense in our consolidated statements of operations with the corresponding amount included in notes payable and other non-current borrowings. the periodic interest settlements for the swap agreements, which occur at the same interval as those per the 2014 notes, are recorded as interest expense. by entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. our 2014 notes had an effective interest rate of 1.34% as of may 31, 2013, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2013, if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $15 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements. foreign currency risk foreign currency transaction risk we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency 68 table of contents transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions that are expected to be cash settled in the near term. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. as of both may 31, 2013 and 2012, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.0 billion. as of may 31, 2013 and 2012, the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.1 billion and $873 million, respectively. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2013 and 2012. net foreign exchange transaction (losses) gains included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $(162) million, $(105) million and $11 million in fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011, respectively. included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2013 were foreign currency losses relating to our venezuelan subsidiary operations, which are more thoroughly described under non-operating income, net in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations above. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are uncertain. foreign currency translation risk fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report). periodically, we may hedge net assets of certain international subsidiaries from foreign currency exposure. as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2013, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of may 31, 2013 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2012. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2013, 2012 and 2011 was a (decrease) increase of $(110) million, $(471) million and $600 million, respectively. the following table includes estimates of the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of may 31, 2013: (in millions) u.s. dollar equivalent at may 31, 2013 euro $ 1,409 chinese renminbi 1,041 indian rupee 1,015 australian dollar 681 japanese yen 428 south african rand 309 british pound 259 canadian dollar 233 other foreign currencies 1,784 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 7,159 69 table of contents if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would decrease by approximately $716 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalent and marketable securities balances.risk factors 18 risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. manufacturing to produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our oracle engineered systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers, storage systems and networking products. for all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. we distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. our manufacturing processes are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a build-to-order methodology in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. as a result, we continue to evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. refer to risk factors included in item 1a within this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. 15 table of contents research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $5.2 billion, $4.9 billion and $4.5 billion in each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively, or 13% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2014, 2013 and 12% in fiscal 2012. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and cloud and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings. employees as of may 31, 2014, we employed approximately 122,000 full-time employees, including approximately 32,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 9,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 5,000 in our cloud saas, paas, and iaas operations, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 6,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 22,000 in services, approximately 36,000 in research and development and approximately 11,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 45,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 77,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries labor unions or workers councils represent some of our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations web site at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the sec. the information posted on or accessible through our web site is not incorporated into this annual report. 16 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley chairman of the board of directors safra a. catz president, chief financial officer and director mark v. hurd president and director john fowler executive vice president, systems thomas kurian executive vice president, product development dorian e. daley senior vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 69, has been chief executive officer and a director since he founded oracle in june 1977. he served as chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 69, has served as chairman of the board since january 2004 and as a director since june 1995. he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. ms. catz, 52, has been a president since january 2004, chief financial officer most recently since april 2011 and has served as a director since october 2001. she was previously chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also currently serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 57, has been a president and served as a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hp from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hp from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. fowler, 53, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to joining us, mr. fowler served as sun microsystems, inc. executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006 and as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004. mr. kurian, 47, has been executive vice president, product development since july 2009. he served as senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. ms. daley, 55, has been senior vice president, general counsel and secretary since october 2007. she served as vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 52, has been senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since february 2008 and was vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. 17 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise software, cloud offerings, hardware systems and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; general political developments; and currency exchange rate fluctuations. macroeconomic developments like the continued slow pace of economic recovery in the united states and europe and in parts of asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment in government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their information technology (it) budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in places like ukraine and its potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly our new software licenses revenues and hardware systems revenues, are difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in our business practices that we implement with our newly acquired companies that may affect customer behavior. 18 table of contents a substantial portion of our new software licenses revenue contracts and hardware systems contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software licenses transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware systems products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. our cloud computing strategy, including our oracle cloud software-as-a-service, platform-as-a-service and infrastructure-as-a-service offerings, may not be successful. we offer customers a broad portfolio of software, cloud and hardware offerings and related services to enable customers to adopt a cloud computing strategy that is right for them. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact pricing in both our on-premise enterprise software business and our cloud business, as well as overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. our cloud offerings are generally purchased by customers on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the term of the subscriptions. the deferred revenue that results from sales of our cloud offerings may prevent any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our new software licenses arrangements whereby new software licenses revenues are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related software licenses. we incur expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our cloud offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. to the extent customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we could experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our new software licenses arrangements and cloud offering arrangements. we have also acquired a number of cloud computing companies, and the integration of these companies into our oracle cloud strategy may not be as efficient or scalable as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to fully realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe for our software, hardware or cloud offerings or renew software or hardware support contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, it standards from both consortia and formal standards-setting forums as well as de facto marketplace standards are rapidly evolving. we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our software and hardware products and services, including our database in-memory, oracle cloud and oracle engineered systems offerings. our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service; 19 table of contents there are changes in information technology trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts; we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. if our security measures for our software, hardware, services or oracle cloud offerings are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the information technology business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud offerings, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data as well as our own. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. nevertheless, we encounter attempts by third parties to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third party products or services incorporated into our own. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce employees or customers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers data or our it systems. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects other software and hardware companies, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large amounts of our customers confidential information and data and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquisitions, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these acquisitions within oracle. if a cyber attack or other security incident described above were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers data or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to be not secure. this in turn could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. further, as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the protection of personal information expand and become more complex, these potential risks to our business will intensify. changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personally identifiable information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services. 20 table of contents we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our software, hardware and cloud offerings. despite testing prior to their release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, software, hardware and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software, hardware or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software, hardware or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could result in creating security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software, hardware or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our ability to conduct our business operations and the operations of our customers. enterprise customers rely on our software and hardware products and services to run their businesses and errors in our software, hardware or cloud offerings could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, among others, that compete with our software and cloud offerings. these vendors include on-premise software companies and companies that offer saas or cloud computing and business process outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware systems business competes with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers and (iii) providers of storage products. our hardware systems business causes us to compete with companies who historically have been partners. some of these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware systems development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential 21 table of contents acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to our operating results; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries such as venezuela that have led to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country currency; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities, including those in ukraine; natural disasters; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware systems products segment and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited (ofss), a publicly traded indian software company focused on the banking industry, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if ofss were a wholly owned subsidiary. acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. an active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; 22 table of contents we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business; (ii) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; or (iii) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software or hardware support contracts or cloud-based subscription contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products or services, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. 23 table of contents the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the value of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our assets, revenues and operating results. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. generally, our assets that we report are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a significant portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies. during fiscal 2014 and 2013, we incurred foreign currency losses associated with our venezuelan subsidiary due to it being designated as operating in a highly inflationary economy and due to the subsequent devaluation of the venezuelan bolivar relative to the u.s. dollar. we may incur similar foreign currency losses for countries that are dealing with similar risks of high inflation, such as in certain latin american and other emerging market countries where we do business. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with these foreign currency exposures that we may suspend from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. our periodic workforce restructurings, including reorganizations of our sales force, can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, these types of sales force restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs, increased sales and marketing costs and temporary reduced productivity while the sales teams adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. our hardware systems revenues and profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our hardware systems business. our hardware systems business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we do not effectively manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware systems business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: as we develop and introduce new versions or next generations of our hardware systems products, customers may defer or delay purchases of existing hardware systems products and wait for these new releases, all of which could adversely affect our hardware systems revenues in the short term; 24 table of contents our hardware systems business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our software and cloud business; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems, such as our oracle exadata database machine, oracle exalogic elastic cloud and oracle supercluster products, which are in the relatively early stages of adoption by our customers, and our de-emphasis of our lower profit margin commodity hardware systems products that historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware systems revenues; we face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than in our software and cloud and services businesses, higher amortization from intangible assets, and potential impairment of intangible assets and goodwill associated with our hardware systems business. any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results; we may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts or such increase may take longer than we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability; and we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own; that leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating; or that utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. our hardware systems offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware systems products are complicated processes. the development process for our hardware systems products is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation. after the development phase, we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware systems products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware systems products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware systems products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware systems products in anticipation of new hardware systems product releases. it is also possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws which could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers and could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary components for our hardware products, and there are some components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by natural disasters, political unrest or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these parts and components, hardware systems product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware systems revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or systems products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient components for our hardware products to meet anticipated 25 table of contents customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we are susceptible to third party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third party manufacturers have facilities and operations. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our hardware systems products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed. we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers build our hardware systems products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware systems products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our mixed direct and indirect sales model for our hardware systems products may not succeed and could result in lower hardware revenues or profits. disruptions to our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. although we sell our hardware systems products through indirect channels, including independent distributors and value added resellers, we have enhanced our direct sales coverage for our hardware products and intend that our direct sales force will sell a larger portion of our hardware products in the future than they do now. these direct sales efforts, however, may not be successful. our relationships with some of our channel partners may deteriorate because we have reduced our reliance on some of these partners for sales of our hardware products and have modified our approach and timing to the manufacturing of our products, which could result in reduced demand from the channel partners or certain customer segments serviced by these channel partners. some hardware revenues from channel partners may not be replaced by revenues generated from our own sales personnel or may not be replaced as quickly as we expect. in addition, our sales personnel may not be able to achieve our sales forecasts for our hardware business. if we experience any of these risks, our hardware revenues and profits may decline. our software indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants products and 26 table of contents services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and the proliferation of non-practicing entities asserting intellectual property infringement claims increases. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or; otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our chief executive officer and founder, members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. 27 table of contents we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our compensation program includes stock options, which are an important tool in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. some of the changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted stock options, a reduction in the number of stock options granted per employee and a change to alternative forms of stock-based compensation, all of which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and also impact the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients subject us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. further, our u.s. federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations being made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels in the u.s. and our contracts with foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact pricing in both our on-premise enterprise software business and our cloud business, as well as overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software licenses fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our product or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing software, cloud and hardware offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. we have made and expect to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short software and hardware life cycles 28 table of contents require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our research and development activities and certain other critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management attention away from the running of our business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the united states, many countries in the european union, and other countries where we do business, are actively considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, which, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover many of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements. however, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions which we consider to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states that have lower statutory tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into the hardware systems business, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their 29 table of contents acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or intangible assets, in particular within our hardware systems products or consulting reporting units, for which the amounts of goodwill and intangible assets that we have recorded increased in recent years and may continue to increase in the future, and for which we have experienced revenues and/or margin declines as compared to prior years; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of or changes to assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2014, we had an aggregate of $24.2 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between the remainder of calendar 2014 and calendar 2040 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware systems operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials 30 table of contents used for these offerings, human health and safety, and regulating the use of certain chemical substances. we endeavor to comply with these environmental and other laws, yet compliance with such laws could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware systems businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware systems businesses. the u.s. securities and exchange commission has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware systems end products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict mineral disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware systems revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation within the european union (eu), including the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs) and waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive), as well as china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from eu countries and china as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. in addition, similar environmental legislation has been or may be enacted in other jurisdictions, the cumulative impact of which could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 74 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment grade credit ratings, which we believe mitigates certain risks. in addition, we purchase high quality debt security investments, approximately 45% of which have maturity dates within one year and 55% of which have maturity dates within one to four years as of may 31, 2014 (see a description of our debt securities held in note 3 and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). interest rate movements can impact the valuation of our debt securities but are presently not significant to our valuations considering the current interest rate environment and the duration of our portfolio. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2014, total interest income was $263 million with our cash, cash 74 table of contents equivalents and marketable investments yielding an average 0.79% on a worldwide basis. the table below presents the approximate fair values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2014 and 2013. may 31, 2014 2013 (dollars in millions) fair value weighted average interest rate fair value weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 17,769 0.37% $ 14,613 0.50% marketable securities 21,050 1.14% 17,603 0.88% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 38,819 0.79% $ 32,216 0.71% interest expense risk our total borrowings were $24.2 billion as of may 31, 2014, consisting of $23.7 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $500 million of floating rate borrowings. in july 2013, we issued 2.0 billion ($2.7 billion as of may 31, 2014) of fixed rate senior notes and $3.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $500 million of floating rate notes and $2.5 billion of fixed rate notes as described in the recent financing activities section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) in this annual report. in july 2013, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 2.375% senior notes due january 2019 (2019 notes) so that the interest payable on the 2019 notes effectively became variable based on libor. in september 2009, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 3.75% senior notes due july 2014 (2014 notes) so that the interest payable on the 2014 notes effectively became variable based on libor. the critical terms of the interest rate swap agreements and the 2019 notes and 2014 notes that the interest rate swap agreements pertain to match, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. we do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. we are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging . additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in note 8 and note 11 of notes to consolidated financial statements, included elsewhere in this annual report. by entering into these interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. as of may 31, 2014, our 2014 notes and 2019 notes had effective interest rates of 1.29% and 0.88%, respectively, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2014, if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $22 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and floating rate borrowings. currency risk foreign currency transaction and translation risks foreign currency borrowings and related hedges in july 2013, we issued 1.25 billion of 2.25% notes due january 2021 (2021 notes) and we entered into certain cross-currency swap agreements to manage the related foreign exchange risk by effectively converting the fixed-rate euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to a fixed-rate, u.s. dollar denominated debt. the economic effect of the swap agreements was to eliminate the uncertainty of the cash flows in u.s. dollars associated with the 2021 notes by fixing the principal amount of the 2021 notes at $1.6 billion with an annual interest rate of 3.53%. 75 table of contents in july 2013, we also issued 750 million of 3.125% notes due july 2025 (2025 notes). we designated the 2025 notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the change in the carrying value of the euro denominated 2025 notes due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on the effective portion is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report and totaled $34 million of net other comprehensive losses for fiscal 2014. any remaining change in the carrying value of the 2025 notes representing the ineffective portion of the net investment hedge is recognized in non-operating (expense) income, net. we did not record any ineffectiveness during fiscal 2014. fluctuations in the exchange rates between the euro and the u.s. dollar will impact the amount of u.s. dollars that we will require to settle the 2025 notes at maturity. if the u.s. dollar weakened by 10% in comparison to the euro as of may 31, 2014, our obligation to settle the 2025 notes in u.s. dollars would have increased by approximately $102 million. foreign currency transaction risk foreign currency forward contracts we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. given the short duration of the forward contracts, the amount recorded is not significant. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating (expense) income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. as of may 31, 2014 and 2013, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.6 billion and $3.0 billion, respectively. as of may 31, 2014 and 2013, the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $2.0 billion and $1.1 billion, respectively. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2014 and 2013. net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating (expense) income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $375 million, $162 million and $105 million in fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012, respectively. included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were foreign currency losses relating to our venezuelan subsidiary operations, which are more thoroughly described under non-operating (expense) income, net in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations above. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown. 76 table of contents foreign currency translation risk impact on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report). as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2014, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of may 31, 2014 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2013. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effect of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2014, 2013 and 2012 were decreases of $158 million, $110 million and $471 million, respectively. the following table includes estimates of the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies as of may 31, 2014: (in millions) u.s. dollar equivalent at may 31, 2014 euro $ 1,843 indian rupee 1,172 australian dollar 724 japanese yen 550 chinese renminbi 535 canadian dollar 385 south african rand 341 british pound 325 other foreign currencies 2,148 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 8,023 if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would decrease by approximately $802 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances.risk factors 19 risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. manufacturing to produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our oracle engineered systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers, storage systems and networking products. for all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. we distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. our manufacturing processes substantially are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a build-to-order methodology in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. 16 table of contents however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. as a result, we continue to evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. refer to risk factors included in item 1a within this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our products internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $5.5 billion, $5.2 billion and $4.9 billion in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively, or 14% of total revenues in fiscal 2015 and 13% of total revenues in each of fiscal 2014 and 2013. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the software and cloud and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings. employees as of may 31, 2015, we employed approximately 132,000 full-time employees, including approximately 35,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 11,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 6,000 in our cloud saas, paas and iaas operations, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware systems products, approximately 5,000 in hardware systems support, approximately 23,000 in services, approximately 38,000 in research and development and approximately 13,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 49,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 83,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries labor unions or workers councils represent some of our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the united states securities and exchange commission (sec). the information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this annual report. 17 table of contents executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) safra a. catz chief executive officer and director mark v. hurd chief executive officer and director lawrence j. ellison executive chairman of the board of directors and chief technology officer jeffrey o. henley executive vice chairman of the board of directors thomas kurian president, product development john fowler executive vice president, systems dorian e. daley executive vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer ms. catz, 53, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. she served as our president from january 2004 to september 2014, our chief financial officer most recently from april 2011 until september 2014 and a director since october 2001. she was previously our chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and our interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named our president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also currently serves as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 58, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. he served as our president from september 2010 to september 2014 and a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hp from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hp from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. ellison, 70, has been our chairman of the board and chief technology officer since september 2014. he served as our chief executive officer from june 1977, when he founded oracle, until september 2014. he has served as a director since june 1977. he previously served as our chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. mr. henley, 70, has served as our vice chairman of the board since september 2014. he previously served as our chairman of the board from january 2004 to september 2014 and has served as a director since june 1995. he served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. mr. kurian, 48, has been our president, product development since january 2015. he served as our executive vice president, product development from july 2009 until january 2015. he served as our senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. mr. fowler, 54, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to oracle acquisition of sun microsystems, inc., mr. fowler served as sun executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006 and as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004. ms. daley, 56, has been our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since april 2015 and was our senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from october 2007 to april 2015. she served as our vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 53, has been our executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since april 2015. he served as our senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from february 2008 to april 2015 and served as our vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. 18 table of contents item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise software, cloud offerings, hardware systems and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. macroeconomic developments like the continued slow pace of economic recovery in europe and parts of the united states, asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their information technology (it) budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in places like ukraine, syria and iraq and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware systems products, hardware systems support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound, relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the recent strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in u.s. dollars after converting our euro-based results into u.s. dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as these products become relatively more expensive for euro-based enterprises to purchase. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a significant portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies. the u.s. dollar strengthened relative to other currencies, including the euro, in fiscal 2015, which is reflected in our results. certain of our international subsidiaries operate in economies that have been designated as highly inflationary. we have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in these highly inflationary economies relative to the u.s. dollar and we may continue to incur such losses in these countries or other emerging market countries where we do business. 19 table of contents in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. we may suspend the program from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly our new software licenses revenues and hardware systems revenues, are difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in business practices that we implement in our newly acquired companies. these changes may negatively affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software licenses and hardware systems contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short-term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software licenses transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware systems products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. our oracle cloud strategy, including our oracle software as a service (saas), platform as a service (paas), infrastructure as a service (iaas) and data as a service (daas) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we offer customers a full range of consumption models including the deployment of our products via our cloud based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premises enterprise software offerings and our cloud offerings, and has a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premises software product and service 20 table of contents offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near-term. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. our cloud offerings are generally purchased by customers on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the term of the subscriptions. the deferred revenue that results from sales of our cloud offerings may prevent any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our new software licenses arrangements whereby new software licenses revenues are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related software licenses. we incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our cloud offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. as customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our new software licenses arrangements and cloud offering arrangements. we have also acquired a number of cloud computing companies, and the integration of these companies into our oracle cloud strategy may not be as efficient or scalable as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to fully realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our products and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our software, hardware or cloud offerings or renew software support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our software and cloud and hardware products and services, including our database multitenant, database in-memory, saas, paas, iaas, daas and oracle engineered systems offerings. our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service; there are changes in information technology trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts; we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. if our security measures for our software, hardware, services or oracle cloud offerings are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the information technology business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud offerings, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data, external data, as well as our own data. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. 21 table of contents at times, we encounter attempts by third parties to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers , partners and suppliers software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third party data, products or services incorporated into our own. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers , suppliers or partners data or the it systems of oracle, its customers, suppliers or partners. high-profile security breaches at other companies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attacks targeting information technology products and businesses. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects other software and hardware companies, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large amounts of data, including personal information and our customers confidential information and data and other external data, and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within oracle. if a cyber-attack or other security incident described above were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers or suppliers data, other external data or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities, we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to be not secure. this in turn could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. our business practices with respect to the collection, use and management of personal information could give rise to liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. u.s. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact the ability of oracle and our customers and data partners to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services oracle provides and data services. this could be true particularly in those jurisdictions where privacy laws or regulators take a broader view of how personal information is defined, therefore subjecting the handling of such data to heightened restrictions that may be obstructive to the operations of oracle and its customers and data providers. this impact may be acute in countries that have passed or are considering passing legislation that requires data to remain localized in country , as this imposes financial costs on any service provider that is required to store data in jurisdictions not of its choosing and nonstandard operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations, and the european 22 table of contents union (eu) is considering legislation that would impose fines for privacy violations based on a percentage of global revenues. changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personal information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services or even prevent us from offering certain of our services in jurisdictions that we operate. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect oracle reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit oracle ability to provide certain products. any failure, or perceived failure, by oracle to comply with u.s. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, or other policies, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our software, hardware and cloud offerings. despite testing prior to their release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, software, hardware and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software, hardware or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software, hardware or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could result in creating security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software, hardware or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our ability to conduct our business operations and the operations of our customers. enterprise customers rely on our software and hardware products and services to run their businesses and errors in our software, hardware or cloud offerings could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, and as technology evolves. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, among others, that compete with our software and cloud offerings. these vendors include on-premises software companies and companies that offer cloud based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings and business process outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware systems business competes with, among others, (i) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (ii) microprocessor/chip manufacturers, (iii) providers of storage products and (iv) certain industry-specific hardware manufacturers including those serving communications, hospitality and retail industries. our hardware systems business causes us to compete with certain companies that historically have been partners. some of these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also 23 table of contents compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware systems business. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware systems development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to customer demand and our operating results; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries such as venezuela that have led to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country currency; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities, including those in ukraine, syria, iraq and yemen; natural disasters; longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware systems products segment and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited (ofss), a publicly traded company in india, and oracle corporation japan (nokk), a publicly traded company in japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if ofss or nokk were wholly owned subsidiaries. 24 table of contents acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. in recent years, we have invested billions of dollars to acquire a number of companies, products, services and technologies. a selective and active acquisition program is an important element of our overall corporate strategy and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; we may have difficulties (i) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business; (ii) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; or (iii) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software or hardware support contracts or cloud-based subscription contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products or services, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; 25 table of contents our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our periodic workforce restructurings, including reorganizations of our sales force, can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, these types of sales force restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs, increased sales and marketing costs and temporary reduced productivity while the sales teams adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. our hardware systems revenues and profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our hardware systems business. our hardware systems business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we do not effectively manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware systems business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: as we develop and introduce new versions or next generations of our hardware systems products, customers may defer or delay purchases of existing hardware systems products and wait for these new releases, all of which could adversely affect our hardware systems revenues in the short term; our hardware systems business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our software and cloud business; we have focused on our more profitable oracle engineered systems, such as our oracle exadata database machine, oracle exalogic elastic cloud, oracle exalytics in-memory machine and oracle supercluster products, which are in the relatively early stages of adoption by our customers, and the de-emphasis of our lower profit margin commodity hardware systems products could adversely affect our hardware systems revenues because the lower profit systems have historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware systems revenues; we face a greater risk of potential write-downs and impairments of inventory, higher warranty expenses than in our software and cloud and services businesses, and amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets associated with our hardware systems business. any of these items could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results; we may not be able to increase sales of hardware systems support contracts or such increase may take longer than we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability; and we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but (i) operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own; (ii) have different legacy business 26 table of contents practices and go-to-market strategies that we may alter as a part of our integration efforts, which may significantly impact our estimated revenues and profits from the acquired company; (iii) leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating; or (iv) utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. our hardware systems offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware systems business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware systems products are complicated processes. the development process for our hardware systems products is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation. after the development phase, we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware systems products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware systems products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware systems products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware systems products in anticipation of new hardware systems product releases. it is also possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws which could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers and could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by natural disasters, political unrest, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary technologies, parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these technologies, parts and components, hardware systems product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware systems revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware systems business cost structure. additionally, we could experience changes in shipping and logistics of our hardware products, which could result in fluctuations in prices and negatively impact our hardware systems margins. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore, we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or systems products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient technologies and components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware systems business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we are susceptible to third party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the design, manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the design, manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third party manufacturers have facilities and operations. some countries may raise national security concerns or 27 table of contents impose market access restrictions based on location of manufacture or sourcing. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware systems products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our hardware systems products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware systems business could be harmed. we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third party manufacturers build our hardware systems products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware systems products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware systems products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our software indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our software indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect the number of such claims will increase as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; 28 table of contents the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and the proliferation of non-practicing entities asserting intellectual property infringement claims increases. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on the continued service of our senior management, including our executive chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and founder, our chief executive officers, other members of our executive team and other key employees and the hiring of new qualified employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. in addition, acquisitions could cause us to lose key personnel of the acquired companies or at oracle. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our general compensation program includes stock options and restricted stock units (rsus), which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. in addition, because we expense all stock-based compensation, we have changed and may in the future change our stock-based and other compensation practices. for example, in fiscal 2015, we introduced rsu grants for certain of our employees and performance related stock unit grants for certain of our executives. we continue to evaluate our compensation practices and other changes we consider from time to time include a reduction in the number of employees granted equity awards, a reduction in the number of stock options or rsus granted per employee and alternative forms of stock-based compensation, all of which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and also impact the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or changes made by competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients subject us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure for governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. further, our u.s. federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts at the state and local levels in the u.s. and our contracts with foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government 29 table of contents funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premises enterprise software offerings and our cloud offerings, as well as overall demand for our on-premises software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware systems support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software licenses fees and net new hardware systems products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our product or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing software, cloud and hardware offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. an important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short software and hardware life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management attention away from running our core business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. 30 table of contents changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the united states, many countries in the eu, and other countries where we do business, are actively considering changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, which, if enacted, could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. although, we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover some of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in recent periods, transfer pricing audits in many foreign jurisdictions have become increasingly contentious. similarly, certain jurisdictions are increasingly raising concerns about certain withholding tax matters. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions which we consider to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states that have lower statutory tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into the hardware systems business, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill, in particular within our consulting reporting unit, or impairment of intangible assets, both of which we have added to significantly in recent years and may continue to increase in the future; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; 31 table of contents charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. for example, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 relating to our hardware systems reporting unit. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2015, we had an aggregate of $42.0 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2016 and calendar year 2055 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware systems operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers. we endeavor to comply with these environmental and other laws, yet compliance with these environmental and other laws could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware systems businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware systems businesses. the u.s. securities and exchange commission has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware systems end products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware systems revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation, such as the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs), the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive) and china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware systems revenues from the eu, china and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. the cumulative impact of international environmental legislation could be significant. 32 table of contents our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 76 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment grade credit ratings or financial institutions that meet investment grade ratings criteria, which we believe mitigates credit risk and certain other risks. in addition, as of may 31, 2015, substantially all of our marketable securities are high quality with approximately 28% having maturity dates within one year and 72% having maturity dates within one to six years (see a description of our marketable securities held in note 3 and note 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). we hold a mix of both fixed and floating rate debt securities. our floating rate debt securities serve to lower the overall risk to our investments portfolio associated with the risk of rising interest rates. the fair values of our fixed rate debt securities are impacted by interest rate movements and if interest rates increased by 50 basis points as of may 31, 2015, we estimate the change would decrease the fair 76 table of contents values of our marketable securities holdings by $191 million. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2015, total interest income was $349 million with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments yielding an average 0.79% on a worldwide basis. the table below presents the approximate fair values of our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities and the related weighted average interest rates for our investment portfolio at may 31, 2015 and 2014. may 31, 2015 2014 (dollars in millions) fair value weighted average interest rate fair value weighted average interest rate cash and cash equivalents $ 21,716 0.36% $ 17,769 0.37% marketable securities 32,652 1.07% 21,050 1.14% total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities $ 54,368 0.79% $ 38,819 0.79% interest expense risk interest expense risk fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements our total borrowings were $42.0 billion as of may 31, 2015, consisting of $39.7 billion of fixed rate borrowings and $2.3 billion of floating rate borrowings (floating rate notes). during fiscal 2015, we issued $20.0 billion of senior notes comprised of $1.75 billion of floating rate notes and $18.25 billion of fixed rate notes as described in the recent financing activities section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) in this annual report. in july 2014, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $2.0 billion of 2.25% senior notes due october 2019 (2019 notes) and our $1.5 billion of 2.80% senior notes due july 2021 (2021 notes) so that the interest payable on the 2019 notes and the 2021 notes effectively became variable based on libor. in july 2013, we entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 2.375% senior notes due january 2019 (january 2019 notes) so that the interest payable on the january 2019 notes effectively became variable based on libor. the critical terms of the interest rate swap agreements match the critical terms of the 2019 notes, 2021 notes and the january 2019 notes that the interest rate swap agreements pertain to, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. we do not use these interest rate swap arrangements or our fixed rate borrowings for trading purposes. we are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging . the total fair value gain of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements as of may 31, 2015 was $74 million. if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points as of may 31, 2015, the change would decrease the fair values of the fixed to variable swap agreements by $221 million. additional details regarding our senior notes and related interest rate swap agreements are included in notes 8 and 11 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. by issuing the floating rate notes and entering into the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. as of may 31, 2015, the weighted average interest rate associated with our floating rate notes and january 2019 notes, 2019 notes and 2021 notes, after considering the effects of the aforementioned interest rate swap arrangements, was 0.79%. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2015, if libor-based interest rates increased by 100 basis points, the change would increase our interest expense annually by approximately $73 million as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and floating rate borrowings. 77 table of contents in july 2014, our 3.75% senior notes due july 2014 for $1.5 billion matured and were repaid, and we settled the fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements associated with such fixed rate senior notes. currency risk foreign currency transaction and translation risks foreign currency borrowings and related hedges in july 2013, we issued 1.25 billion of 2.25% notes due january 2021 (january 2021 notes) and we entered into certain cross-currency swap agreements to manage the related foreign exchange risk by effectively converting the fixed-rate euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to a fixed-rate, u.s. dollar denominated debt. the economic effect of the swap agreements was to eliminate the uncertainty of the cash flows in u.s. dollars associated with the january 2021 notes by fixing the principal amount of the january 2021 notes at $1.6 billion with an annual interest rate of 3.53%. the critical terms of the cross-currency swap agreements match the critical terms of january 2021 notes, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. we do not use these cross-currency swap arrangements for trading purposes. we are accounting for these interest rate swap agreements as cash flow hedges pursuant to asc 815. the fair values of these cross-currency swap agreements as of may 31, 2015 and 2014 were a $(244) million loss and a $74 million gain, respectively. the changes in the fair values of the cross-currency swap agreements during fiscal 2015 were primarily attributable to the decline in the value of the euro relative to the u.s. dollar. if the euro weakened by 10% as of may 31, 2015, we estimate the change would decrease the fair values of the cross-currency swap agreements by $174 million. if interest rates that correspond to the remaining term of the january 2021 notes decreased by 100 basis points as of may 31, 2015, we estimate the change would decrease the fair values of the cross-currency swap agreements by $91 million. additional details regarding our senior notes and related cross-currency swap agreements are included in notes 8 and 11 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. in july 2013, we also issued 750 million of 3.125% notes due july 2025 (2025 notes). we designated the 2025 notes as a net investment hedge of our investments in certain of our international subsidiaries that use the euro as their functional currency in order to reduce the volatility in stockholders equity caused by the changes in foreign currency exchange rates of the euro with respect to the u.s. dollar. as a result, the change in the carrying value of the euro denominated 2025 notes due to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates on the effective portion is recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report and totaled $208 million of net other comprehensive gains for fiscal 2015. any remaining change in the carrying value of the 2025 notes representing the ineffective portion of the net investment hedge is recognized in non-operating income (expense), net. we did not record any ineffectiveness during fiscal 2015. fluctuations in the exchange rates between the euro and the u.s. dollar will impact the amount of u.s. dollars that we will require to settle the 2025 notes at maturity. if the u.s. dollar weakened by 10% in comparison to the euro as of may 31, 2015, we estimate our obligation to cash settle the principal portion of the 2025 notes in u.s. dollars would increase by approximately $81 million. foreign currency transaction risk foreign currency forward contracts we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. given the short duration of the forward contracts, the amount recorded is 78 table of contents not significant. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for a net unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for a net unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income (expense), net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. as of may 31, 2015 and 2014, the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $2.2 billion and $3.6 billion, respectively. as of may 31, 2015 and 2014, the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.2 billion and $2.0 billion, respectively. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2015 and 2014. net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating income (expense), net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $157 million, $375 million and $162 million in fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. included in the net foreign exchange transaction losses for fiscal 2015, fiscal 2014 and fiscal 2013 were foreign currency remeasurement losses relating to our venezuelan subsidiary operations of $23 million, $213 million and $64 million, respectively (see note 1 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report for additional information). as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown. foreign currency translation risk impact on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheet and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report). as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2015, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of may 31, 2015 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate as of may 31, 2014. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effects of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars for fiscal 2015, 2014 and 2013 were decreases of $1.2 billion, $158 million and $110 million, respectively. the following table includes estimates of the u.s. dollar equivalent of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in certain major foreign currencies that we held as of may 31, 2015: (in millions) u.s. dollar equivalent at may 31, 2015 euro $ 2,190 japanese yen 1,143 indian rupee 674 saudi arabian riyal 445 chinese renminbi 427 australian dollar 397 south african rand 344 canadian dollar 231 other foreign currencies 1,802 total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities denominated in foreign currencies $ 7,653 79 table of contents if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly weakened by 10%, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would decrease by approximately $765 million, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances.risk factors 21 risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. oracle cloud operations oracle cloud operations delivers our saas, paas and iaas offerings to customers through the oracle cloud, which is a secure, reliable, scalable, enterprise grade platform that is deployed upon oracle application, platform and infrastructure products and is managed by oracle employees within a global network of data centers. the oracle cloud enables secure and isolated cloud-based instances for each of our customers to access the functionality of our saas, paas and iaas offerings via a broad spectrum of devices and leverages automated software lifecycle management to enable the rapid delivery of the latest cloud technology capabilities as they become available. manufacturing to produce our hardware products, we rely on both our internal manufacturing operations as well as third-party manufacturing partners. our internal manufacturing operations consist primarily of materials procurement, assembly, testing and quality control of our oracle engineered systems and certain of our enterprise and data center servers, storage products and networking products. for all other manufacturing, we generally rely on third-party manufacturing partners to produce our hardware-related components and hardware products and we may involve our internal manufacturing operations in the final assembly, testing and quality control processes for these components and products. we distribute most of our hardware products either from our facilities or partner facilities. our manufacturing processes substantially are based on standardization of components across product types, centralization of assembly and distribution centers and a build-to-order methodology in which products generally are built only after customers have placed firm orders. production of our hardware products requires that we purchase materials, supplies, product subassemblies and full assemblies from a number of vendors. for most of our hardware products, we have existing alternate sources of supply or such sources are readily available. however, we do rely on sole sources for certain of our hardware products. as a result, we continue to evaluate potential risks of disruption to our supply chain operations. refer to risk factors included in item 1a within this annual report for additional discussion of the challenges we encounter with respect to the sources and availability of supplies for our products and the related risks to our business. research and development we develop the substantial majority of our product offerings internally. in addition, we have extended our product offerings and intellectual property through acquisitions of businesses and technologies. we also purchase or license intellectual property rights in certain circumstances. internal development allows us to maintain technical control over the design and development of our products. we have a number of united states and foreign patents and pending applications that relate to various aspects of our products and technology. while we believe that our patents have value, no single patent is essential to us or to any of our principal business segments. research and development expenditures were $5.8 billion, $5.5 billion and $5.2 billion in fiscal 2016, 19 table of contents 2015 and 2014, respectively, or 16%, 14% and 13% of total revenues in fiscal 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively. rapid technological advances in hardware and software development, evolving standards in computer hardware and software technology, changing customer needs and frequent new product introductions, offerings and enhancements characterize the cloud and on-premise software and hardware markets in which we compete. we plan to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development efforts to maintain and improve our current product and services offerings. employees as of may 31, 2016, we employed approximately 136,000 full-time employees, including approximately 38,000 in sales and marketing, approximately 6,000 in our cloud saas, paas and iaas operations, approximately 10,000 in software license updates and product support, approximately 1,000 in the manufacturing of our hardware products, approximately 5,000 in hardware support, approximately 23,000 in services, approximately 40,000 in research and development and approximately 13,000 in general and administrative positions. of these employees, approximately 51,000 were employed in the united states and approximately 85,000 were employed internationally. none of our employees in the united states is represented by a labor union; however, in certain foreign subsidiaries labor unions or workers councils represent some of our employees. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and director safra a. catz chief executive officer and director mark v. hurd chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley vice chairman of the board of directors and director thomas kurian president, product development john f. fowler executive vice president, systems dorian e. daley executive vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 71, has been our chairman of the board and chief technology officer since september 2014. he served as our chief executive officer from june 1977, when he founded oracle, until september 2014. he has served as a director since june 1977. he previously served as our chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. ms. catz, 54, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. she served as our president from january 2004 to september 2014, our chief financial officer most recently from april 2011 until september 2014 and a director since october 2001. she was previously our chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and our interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named our president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also previously served as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 59, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. he served as our president from september 2010 to september 2014 and a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from april 2005 to august 2010. 20 table of contents mr. henley, 71, has served as our vice chairman of the board since september 2014. he previously served as our chairman of the board from january 2004 to september 2014 and has served as a director since june 1995. he served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. mr. kurian, 49, has been our president, product development since january 2015. he served as our executive vice president, product development from july 2009 until january 2015. he served as our senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. mr. fowler, 55, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to oracle acquisition of sun microsystems, inc., mr. fowler served as sun executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006 and as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004. ms. daley, 57, has been our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since april 2015 and was our senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from october 2007 to april 2015. she served as our vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 54, has been our executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since april 2015. he served as our senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from february 2008 to april 2015 and served as our vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. our oracle cloud strategy, including our oracle software as a service (saas), platform as a service (paas), infrastructure as a service (iaas) and data as a service (daas) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we offer customers a full range of consumption models, including the deployment of our products via our cloud-based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings. these business models continue to evolve, and we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise enterprise software offerings and our cloud offerings, and has a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which has reduced and could continue to reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. as customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our new software licenses and hardware arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. customers generally purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the subscriptions. the deferred revenue that results from sales of our cloud offerings may prevent any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our new software licenses arrangements whereby new software licenses revenues are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of 21 table of contents the related software licenses. we incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our cloud offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. we have also acquired a number of cloud computing companies, and the integration of these companies into our oracle cloud strategy may not be as efficient or scalable as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to fully realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances, changing delivery models and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our software, hardware or cloud offerings or renew software support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud and on-premise software and hardware products and services, including our database multitenant, database in-memory, saas, paas, iaas, daas and oracle engineered systems offerings. our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; there is a delay in market acceptance of a new, enhanced or acquired product line or service; there are changes in information technology (it) trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts; we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. if our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the it business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud offerings, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data, external data, as well as our own data. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. at times, we encounter attempts by third parties to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers , partners and suppliers software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third-party data, products or services incorporated into our own. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers , suppliers or partners data or the it systems of oracle, its customers, suppliers or partners. 22 table of contents high-profile security breaches at other companies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attacks targeting it products and businesses. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects other software and hardware companies, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large amounts of data, including personal information and our customers confidential information and data and other external data, and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within oracle. we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation if a cyber-attack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers or suppliers data, other external data, or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to be not secure. this could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. our business practices with respect to the collection, use and management of personal information could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. for example, in october 2015, the court of justice of the european union (eu) invalidated the eu-u.s. safe harbor framework, which oracle as well as many other global enterprises had relied on in certain contexts to enable the transfer of eu personal data to the united states. while oracle adapted to this judgment by implementing other transfer mechanisms permitted under applicable law, the validity of these other mechanisms could also be challenged. if successful, this could require oracle to make disruptive operational adjustments to the delivery of certain services that could impact customers and sales in the region. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact the ability of oracle and our customers and data partners to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services oracle provides and data services. this could be true particularly in those jurisdictions where privacy laws or regulators take a broader view of how personal information is defined, therefore subjecting the handling of such data to heightened restrictions that may be obstructive to the operations of oracle and its customers and data providers. this impact may be acute in countries that have passed or are considering passing legislation that requires data to remain localized in country, as this imposes financial costs on any service provider that is required to store data in jurisdictions not of its choosing and nonstandard operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations, and the eu is considering legislation that would impose fines for privacy violations based on a percentage of global revenues. changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personal information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services or even prevent us from offering certain of our services in jurisdictions that we operate. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect oracle reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit oracle ability to provide certain 23 table of contents products. any failure, or perceived failure, by oracle to comply with u.s. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, or other policies, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our software, hardware and cloud offerings. despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our software, hardware and cloud offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released software, hardware or cloud offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our software, hardware or cloud offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other software, hardware or cloud offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third-party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our software, hardware or cloud offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our ability to conduct our business operations and the operations of our customers. enterprise customers rely on our software, hardware and cloud offerings and services to run their businesses and errors in our software, hardware or cloud offerings could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly our new software licenses revenues and hardware revenues, are difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in business practices that we implement in our newly acquired companies. these changes may negatively affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software licenses and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software licenses transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the values of major foreign currencies, 24 table of contents particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound, relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in foreign currency rates, most notably the recent strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in u.s. dollars after converting our foreign currency results into u.s. dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as these products become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the united states. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a significant portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies. the u.s. dollar generally strengthened relative to other currencies, including the euro, in fiscal 2016, which is reflected in our results. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. we may suspend the program from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our international subsidiaries operate in economies that have been designated as highly inflationary. we have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in these highly inflationary economies relative to the u.s. dollar and we may continue to incur such losses in these countries or other emerging market countries where we do business. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise software, cloud offerings, hardware and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. macroeconomic developments like the continued slow pace of economic recovery in europe and parts of the united states, asia and south america could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their it budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. 25 table of contents in addition, political unrest in places like ukraine, syria and iraq and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, hardware products, hardware support and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, among others, that compete with our cloud and on-premise software offerings. these vendors include on-premise software companies and companies that offer cloud-based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings and business process outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware business competes with, among others, (1) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (2) microprocessor/chip manufacturers, (3) providers of storage products, (4) certain industry-specific hardware manufacturers including those serving communications, hospitality and retail industries and (5) certain cloud providers that build their own it infrastructure. our hardware business causes us to compete with certain companies that historically have been partners. some of these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a large portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise enterprise software offerings and our cloud offerings, as well as overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software licenses fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our 26 table of contents products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the united states. our international operations include software and hardware development, manufacturing, assembly, cloud operations, sales, customer support, consulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to customer demand and our operating results; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries such as venezuela that have led to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country currency; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities, including those in ukraine, syria, and iraq; common local business behaviors that are in direct conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies; natural disasters; the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires and increased storm sensitivity); longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the united states at favorable tax rates; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. 27 table of contents the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware products segment and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited (ofss), a publicly traded company in india, and oracle corporation japan (nokk), a publicly traded company in japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if ofss or nokk were wholly-owned subsidiaries. acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we continue to invest billions of dollars to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. we have a selective and active acquisition program and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future because acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; we may have difficulties (1) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business; (2) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; or (3) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, we may impose our business practices or alter go-to-market strategies that adversely impact the acquired business or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew software or hardware support contracts or cloud-based subscription contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products or services, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; 28 table of contents we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our hardware revenues and profitability could decline if we do not manage the risks associated with our hardware business. our hardware business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we do not effectively manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: demand for competing hardware technologies such as cloud infrastructure compute and storage services, which could adversely affect demand for our hardware products offerings; our hardware business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our cloud and on-premise software business; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems, such as our oracle exadata database machine, oracle exalogic elastic cloud, oracle exalytics in-memory machine and oracle supercluster products, which are in the relatively early stages of adoption by our customers, and the de-emphasis of our lower profit margin commodity hardware products, which could adversely affect our hardware revenues because the lower profit products have historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware revenues; as we develop and introduce new versions or next generations of our hardware products, customers may defer or delay purchases of existing hardware products and wait for these new releases, all of which could adversely affect our hardware revenues in the short term; a greater risk of material charges that could adversely affect our operating results, such as potential write-downs and impairments of our inventories; higher warranty expenses than what we experience in our cloud and on-premise software and services businesses; and amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets associated with our hardware business; we may not be able to increase sales of hardware support contracts or such increase may take longer than we anticipate, which could result in lower revenues and profitability, or slower than expected growth of such revenues and profitability; and 29 table of contents we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but (1) operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own; (2) have different legacy business practices and go-to-market strategies than our own that we may alter as a part of our integration efforts, which may significantly impact our estimated revenues and profits from the acquired company; (3) leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating; or (4) utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. our hardware offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware products are complicated processes. the development process for our hardware products is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation. after the development phase, we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost-effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware products in anticipation of new hardware product releases. it is also possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws, which could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers and could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by industry consolidation, natural disasters, political unrest, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary technologies, parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these technologies, parts and components, hardware product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware business cost structure. additionally, we could experience changes in shipping and logistics of our hardware products, which could result in fluctuations in prices and negatively impact our hardware margins. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore, we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or hardware products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient technologies and components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we are susceptible to third-party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the design, manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the united states. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third-party 30 table of contents manufacturers have facilities and operations. some countries may raise national security concerns or impose market access restrictions based on location of manufacture or sourcing. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our hardware products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware business could be harmed. we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third-party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third-party manufacturers build our hardware products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our software and hardware indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our software and hardware indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the united states. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed and, in the future, may claim infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect to continue to receive such claims as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; 31 table of contents the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and the proliferation of non-practicing entities asserting intellectual property infringement claims increases. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our periodic workforce restructurings, including reorganizations of our sales force, can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, change in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, these types of sales force restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs, increased sales and marketing costs and temporary reduced productivity while the sales teams adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management, including our chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and founder, our chief executive officers, other members of our executive team and other key employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our general compensation program includes restricted stock units, performance stock units and stock options, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. we continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, such as reducing the number of employees granted equity awards or the number of equity awards granted per employee and granting alternative forms of stock-based compensation, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. 32 table of contents our sales to government clients expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. further, our u.s. federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts with u.s. state and local governments, foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing software, cloud and hardware offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. an important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short software and hardware life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud offerings. a major earthquake, fire or other catastrophic event that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management attention away from running our core business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significantly adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the united states, many countries in the eu, and other countries where we do business, are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals, which could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. although we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover some of our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements, these agreements do not cover 33 table of contents substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in recent periods, transfer pricing audits in many foreign jurisdictions have become increasingly contentious. similarly, certain jurisdictions are increasingly raising concerns about certain withholding tax matters. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions which we consider to be indefinitely reinvested outside the united states that have lower statutory tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into the hardware business, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill, in particular within our consulting reporting unit, or impairment of intangible assets, both asset types of which have increased in recent years due to our acquisitions and may continue to increase in the future; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. for example, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 relating to our hardware reporting unit. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). 34 table of contents there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2016, we had an aggregate of $43.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2016 and calendar year 2055 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers. we endeavor to comply with these environmental and other laws, yet compliance with these environmental and other laws could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware businesses. the u.s. securities and exchange commission has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware end products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation, such as the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs), the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive) and china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the eu, china and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. the cumulative impact of international environmental legislation could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class actions lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 35 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 77risk factors 22 risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, 20 table of contents as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. the information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chairman of the board of directors and chief technology officer safra a. catz chief executive officer and director mark v. hurd chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley vice chairman of the board of directors thomas kurian president, product development john f. fowler executive vice president, systems dorian e. daley executive vice president, general counsel and secretary william corey west executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 72, has been our chairman of the board and chief technology officer since september 2014. he served as our chief executive officer from june 1977, when he founded oracle, until september 2014. he has served as a director since june 1977. he previously served as our chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. ms. catz, 55, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. she served as our president from january 2004 to september 2014, our chief financial officer most recently from april 2011 until september 2014 and a director since october 2001. she was previously our chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and our interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named our president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she also previously served as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 60, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. he served as our president from september 2010 to september 2014 and a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. henley, 72, has served as our vice chairman of the board since september 2014. he previously served as our chairman of the board from january 2004 to september 2014 and has served as a director since june 1995. he served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. mr. kurian, 50, has been our president, product development since january 2015. he served as our executive vice president, product development from july 2009 until january 2015. he served as our senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. mr. fowler, 56, has been executive vice president, systems since february 2010. prior to oracle acquisition of sun microsystems, inc., mr. fowler served as sun executive vice president, systems group from may 2006 to february 2010, as executive vice president, network systems group from may 2004 to may 2006 and as chief technology officer, software group from july 2002 to may 2004. ms. daley, 58, has been our executive vice president, general counsel and secretary since april 2015 and was our senior vice president, general counsel and secretary from october 2007 to april 2015. she served as our vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. 21 table of contents mr. west, 55, has been our executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since april 2015. he served as our senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from february 2008 to april 2015 and served as our vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. our oracle cloud strategy, including our oracle software as a service (saas), platform as a service (paas), infrastructure as a service (iaas) and data as a service (daas) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we provide our cloud and on-premise offerings to customers worldwide via deployment models that best suit their needs, including via our cloud-based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings. as customers deploy with the oracle cloud, many are adopting a hybrid it model whereby certain of their it instances are deployed using the oracle cloud, while other of their it instances are deployed using oracle on-premise offerings. as these business models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise enterprise software offerings and our cloud offerings, and has a dampening impact on overall demand for our on-premise software product and service offerings, which has reduced and could continue to reduce our revenues and profitability, at least in the near term. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. as customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our new software licenses and hardware arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. customers generally purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the subscriptions. the deferred revenue that results from sales of our cloud offerings may prevent any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings from becoming immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our new software licenses arrangements whereby new software licenses revenues are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related software licenses. we incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructures and marketing of our cloud offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. we have also acquired a number of cloud computing companies, and the integration of these companies into our oracle cloud strategy may not be as efficient or scalable as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to fully realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances, changing delivery models and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our software, hardware or cloud offerings or renew software support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. 22 table of contents we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud and on-premise software and hardware products and services, including our database multitenant, database in-memory, saas, paas, generation 2 iaas, version 12.2 daas and oracle engineered systems offerings. our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release these or other new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; there is a delay in market acceptance of new, enhanced or acquired product lines or services; there are changes in information technology (it) trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts; we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. if our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the it business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud offerings, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data, external data, as well as our own data. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. at times, we encounter attempts by third parties (which may include nation states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers , partners and suppliers software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third-party data, products or services incorporated into our own. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers , suppliers or partners data or the it systems of oracle, its customers, suppliers or partners. high-profile security breaches at other companies have increased in recent years, and security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attacks targeting it products and businesses. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware companies generally, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large amounts of data, including personal information and our customers confidential information and data and other external data, and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within oracle. we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation if a cyber-attack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers or suppliers data, other external data, or our 23 table of contents own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to be not secure. this could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to lawsuits, regulatory investigations and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. our business practices with respect to the collection, use and management of personal information could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. for example, the european union (eu) and the united states (u.s.) formally entered into a new framework in july 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from eu member states to the u.s. this new framework, called the privacy shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the court of justice of the eu in the previous eu-u.s. safe harbor framework, which the court of justice invalidated in october 2015. the privacy shield and other data transfer mechanisms are likely to be reviewed by the european courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers to the u.s. or interruption of such transfers. in the event any court blocks transfers to or from a particular jurisdiction on the basis that no transfer mechanisms are legally adequate, this could give rise to operational interruption in the performance of services for customers and internal processing of employee information, regulatory liabilities or reputational harm. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact the ability of oracle and our customers and data partners to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services oracle provides. this could be true particularly in those jurisdictions where privacy laws or regulators take a broader view of how personal information is defined, therefore subjecting the handling of such data to heightened restrictions that may be obstructive to the operations of oracle and its customers and data providers. this impact may be acute in countries that have passed or are considering passing legislation that requires data to remain localized in country, as this imposes financial costs on any service provider that is required to store data in jurisdictions not of its choosing and nonstandard operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. for example, in 2016, the eu adopted a new law governing data practices and privacy called the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which becomes effective in may 2018. the law establishes new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. non-compliance with the gdpr may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. the gdpr and other changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of certain types of sensitive data, such as healthcare data or other personal information, could greatly increase our cost of providing our products and services or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions that we operate. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect oracle reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit oracle ability to provide certain products. any failure, or perceived failure, by oracle to comply with u.s. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, or other policies, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, software and hardware offerings. despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our cloud, software and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, software or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our 24 table of contents cloud, software or hardware offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other cloud, software or hardware offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third-party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our cloud, software or hardware offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our ability to conduct our business operations and the operations of our customers. enterprise customers rely on our cloud, software and hardware offerings and services to run their businesses and errors in our cloud, software or hardware offerings could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly our cloud revenues, new software licenses revenues and hardware revenues, are difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in our business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. we may use conversion or renewal rates in our forecasts for our cloud business that differ materially from our actual conversion or renewal rates because this business is continuing to evolve and such rates may be unpredictable. a reduction in the conversion rate, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rate in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rate can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates can also be affected by changes in business practices that we implement in our newly acquired companies. these changes may negatively affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our new software licenses and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large new software licenses transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound, relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in u.s. dollars after converting our foreign currency results into u.s. dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as certain of these products may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. in addition, currency 25 table of contents variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies. the u.s. dollar continued to strengthen relative to other currencies in fiscal 2017, which is reflected in our results. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. we may suspend the program from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. certain of our international subsidiaries operate in economies that have been designated as highly inflationary. we have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in these highly inflationary economies relative to the u.s. dollar and we may continue to incur such losses in these countries or other emerging market countries where we do business. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise cloud, software and hardware products and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general political developments. macroeconomic developments like the developments associated with the united kingdom vote to exit the european union or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their it budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, political unrest in places like syria, ukraine, iraq, venezuela and turkey and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of new software licenses, 26 table of contents hardware and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for software license updates and product support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. many vendors develop and market databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, among others, that compete with our cloud and on-premise software offerings. these vendors include on-premise software companies and companies that offer cloud-based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings and business process outsourcing (bpo) as competitive alternatives to buying software and hardware. our competitors that offer business applications and middleware products may influence a customer purchasing decision for the underlying database in an effort to persuade potential customers not to acquire our products. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware business competes with, among others, (1) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (2) microprocessor/chip manufacturers, (3) providers of storage products, (4) certain industry-specific hardware manufacturers including those serving communications, hospitality and retail industries and (5) certain cloud providers that build their own it infrastructures. our hardware business causes us to compete with certain companies that historically have been partners. some of these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. a significant portion of our hardware products are based on our sparc microprocessor and oracle solaris operating system platform, which has a smaller installed base than certain of our competitors platforms and which may make it difficult for us to win new customers that have already made significant investments in our competitors platforms. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our on-premise software, hardware and services offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our software license updates and product support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net new software licenses fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings or support pricing. any broad-based change to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the u.s. our international operations include cloud operations, cloud, software and hardware development, 27 table of contents manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, import and trade restrictions and export requirements. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating in various countries, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to customer demand and our operating results; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries such as venezuela that have led to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country currency; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities, including those in syria, ukraine, iraq, venezuela and turkey; common local business behaviors that are in direct conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies; natural disasters; the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires and increased storm sensitivity); longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; our ability to repatriate funds held by our foreign subsidiaries to the u.s. at favorable tax rates; public health risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware business and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. 28 table of contents as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded company in india, and oracle corporation japan, a publicly traded company in japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we continue to invest billions of dollars to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. we have a selective and active acquisition program and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future because acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; we may have difficulties (1) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business; (2) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; or (3) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, we may impose our business practices or alter go-to-market strategies that adversely impact the acquired business or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by (1) claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; (2) pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; (3) unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and (4) intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew cloud-based subscription contracts or software or hardware support contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products or services, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by, worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; 29 table of contents we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions, otherwise restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our hardware revenues and profitability have declined and could continue to decline. our hardware business may adversely affect our overall profitability if we change our business strategies, do not adapt to changes in market offerings or manage the associated risks. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: our changes in hardware strategies, offerings and technologies such as cloud infrastructure compute and storage services, including our own oracle cloud offerings, which could adversely affect demand for our on-premise hardware products; our hardware business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our cloud and on-premise software business; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems, such as our oracle exadata database machine, oracle supercluster products and oracle cloud at customer portfolio, and the de-emphasis of our lower profit margin commodity hardware products, which could adversely affect our hardware revenues because the lower profit products have historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware revenues; changes in strategies for the development and introduction of new versions or next generations of our hardware products, including the pace at which we offer new versions or next generations of our hardware products, and the related impacts from customers that may defer or delay purchases of existing hardware products and wait for these new releases, all of which could adversely affect our hardware revenues in the short term; a greater risk of material charges that could adversely affect our operating results, such as potential write-downs and impairments of our inventories; higher warranty expenses than what we experience in our cloud and on-premise software and services businesses; and amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets associated with our hardware business; the close connection between hardware products (which have a finite life) and customer demand for related hardware support in which hardware products that approach the end of their useful lives are less likely to have hardware support contracts renewed by customers; and 30 table of contents we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but (1) operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own; (2) have different legacy business practices and go-to-market strategies than our own that we may alter as a part of our integration efforts, which may significantly impact our estimated revenues and profits from the acquired company; (3) leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating; or (4) utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. our hardware offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware products are complicated processes. the development process for our hardware products is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation. after the development phase, we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost-effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware products in anticipation of new hardware product releases. it is also possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws, which could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers and could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by industry consolidation, natural disasters, political unrest, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary technologies, parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these technologies, parts and components, hardware product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices which, if unanticipated, could negatively impact our hardware business cost structure. additionally, we could experience changes in shipping and logistics of our hardware products, which could result in fluctuations in prices and negatively impact our hardware margins. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore, we may experience component inventory shortages which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or hardware products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient technologies and components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we are susceptible to third-party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the design, manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the u.s. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third-party manufacturers 31 table of contents have facilities and operations. some countries may raise national security concerns or impose market access restrictions based on location of manufacture or sourcing. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our hardware products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware business could be harmed. we have simplified our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third-party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third-party manufacturers build our hardware products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our cloud, software and hardware indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our cloud, software and hardware indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the u.s. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect to continue to receive such claims as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; 32 table of contents the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and non-practicing entities continue to assert intellectual property infringement in our industry segments. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our periodic workforce restructurings, including reorganizations of our sales force, can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our direct sales force on which we rely heavily, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, change in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, these types of sales force restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs, increased sales and marketing costs and temporary reduced productivity while the sales teams adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management, including our chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and founder, our chief executive officers, other members of our executive team and other key employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot assure you that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. our general compensation program includes restricted stock units, performance stock units and stock options, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. we continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, such as reducing the number of employees granted equity awards or the number of equity awards granted per employee and granting alternative forms of stock-based compensation, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. 33 table of contents our sales to government clients expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, early termination, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and their respective agencies, which may terminate most of these contracts at any time, without cause. there is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending. further, our u.s. federal government contracts are subject to the approval of appropriations made by the u.s. congress to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts with u.s. state and local governments, foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. additionally, government contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations which could result in various civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing cloud, software and hardware offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. an important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to make significant investments in research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short software and hardware life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems could cause delays in completing sales and providing services, including some of our cloud offerings. a major earthquake, fire, other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management attention away from running our core business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 18 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities and those authorities often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. changes in tax laws or tax rulings may have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. for example, the u.s., many countries in the eu, and other countries where we do business, are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations, including changes to tax laws applicable to corporate multinationals. in particular, reforming the taxation of international businesses has been a priority for u.s. politicians, and key members of the legislative and executive branches have proposed a wide variety of potential changes, any of which could have a significant adverse impact on our effective tax rate. further, in the ordinary course of a global business, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the u.s. internal revenue service (irs) and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. although we have negotiated certain unilateral advance pricing agreements with the irs and certain selected bilateral advance pricing agreements that cover some of 34 table of contents our intercompany transfer pricing issues and preclude the relevant tax authorities from making a transfer pricing adjustment within the scope of these agreements, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in recent periods, transfer pricing audits in many foreign jurisdictions have become increasingly contentious. similarly, certain jurisdictions are increasingly raising concerns about certain withholding tax matters. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions which we consider to be indefinitely reinvested outside the u.s. that have lower statutory tax rates and earnings being higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. we are regularly under audit by tax authorities with respect to these non-income based taxes and may have exposure to additional non-income based tax liabilities. our acquisition activities have increased our non-income based tax exposures, particularly with our entry into the hardware business, which increased the volume and complexity of laws and regulations that we are subject to and with which we must comply. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to asc 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or impairment of intangible assets, both asset types of which have increased due to our recent acquisitions and may continue to increase in the future; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will decrease our net income and earnings per share for the periods in which those costs are incurred. for example, we recognized a goodwill impairment loss in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2015 relating to our hardware reporting unit. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7). 35 table of contents there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2017, we had an aggregate of $57.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2017 and calendar year 2055 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers, as well as local testing and labelling requirements. we endeavor to comply with these environmental and other laws, yet compliance with these environmental and other laws could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware businesses. the u.s. securities and exchange commission has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (commonly referred to as tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware end products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation, such as the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs), the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive) and china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the eu, china and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. the cumulative impact of international environmental legislation could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price is subject to speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 36 table of contents quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 72risk factors 14 risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on our investor relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the u.s. securities and exchange commission. we use our investor relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information. accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, information regarding our environmental policy and global sustainability initiatives and solutions are also available on our website www.oracle.com/corporate/citizenship. the information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this annual report. executive officers of the registrant our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chairman of the board of directors and chief technology officer safra a. catz chief executive officer and director mark v. hurd chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley vice chairman of the board of directors thomas kurian president, product development edward screven executive vice president, chief corporate architect dorian e. daley executive vice president and general counsel william corey west executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer 13 table of contents index to financial statements mr. ellison, 73, has been our chairman of the board and chief technology officer since september 2014. he served as our chief executive officer from june 1977, when he founded oracle, until september 2014. he has served as a director since june 1977. he previously served as our chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. ms. catz, 56, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. she served as our president from january 2004 to september 2014, our chief financial officer most recently from april 2011 until september 2014 and a director since october 2001. she was previously our chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and our interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named our president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she currently serves as a director of the walt disney company and she previously served as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 61, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. he served as our president from september 2010 to september 2014 and a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. henley, 73, has served as our vice chairman of the board since september 2014. he previously served as our chairman of the board from january 2004 to september 2014 and has served as a director since june 1995. he served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. mr. kurian, 51, has been our president, product development since january 2015. he served as our executive vice president, product development from july 2009 until january 2015. he served as our senior vice president of development from february 2001 until july 2009. mr. kurian worked in oracle server technologies as vice president of development from march 1999 until february 2001. he also held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1996. mr. screven, 53, has been executive vice president, chief corporate architect since may 2015. he served as our senior vice president, chief corporate architect from november 2006 to april 2015 and as vice president, chief corporate architect from january 2003 to november 2006. he held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1986. ms. daley, 59, has been our executive vice president and general counsel since april 2015. she served as our secretary from october 2007 until october 2017 and she was our senior vice president, general counsel from october 2007 to april 2015. she served as our vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from october 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle legal department in 1992. mr. west, 56, has been our executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since april 2015. he served as our senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from february 2008 to april 2015 and served as our vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. item 1a. risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. our oracle cloud strategy, including our oracle software as a service (saas), platform as a service (paas), infrastructure as a service (iaas) and data as a service (daas) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we provide our cloud and other offerings to customers worldwide via deployment models that best suit their needs, including via our cloud-based saas, paas, iaas and daas offerings. as these business 14 table of contents index to financial statements models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our cloud and license offerings. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. as customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. customers generally purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the subscriptions. consequently, any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings may not be immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our cloud license and on-premise license arrangements which are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related licenses. in addition, we incur certain expenses associated with the infrastructure and marketing of our cloud offerings in advance of our ability to recognize the revenues associated with these offerings. we have also acquired a number of cloud computing companies, and the integration of these companies into our oracle cloud strategy may not be as efficient or scalable as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to fully realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances, changing delivery models and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our software, hardware or cloud offerings or renew software support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud products and services, including the launch of the oracle autonomous data warehouse cloud service in fiscal 2018. the oracle autonomous data warehouse cloud service offers automation based on machine learning and we have guaranteed, among other matters, that it will reduce customer downtime to less than 30 minutes a year and that amazon data warehouse customers will see a significant cost reduction if they migrate their workloads to our offering. machine learning and artificial intelligence are increasingly driving innovations in technology but if they fail to operate as anticipated or the oracle autonomous warehouse cloud service or our other products do not perform as promised, our business and reputation may be harmed. in addition, our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; there is a delay in market acceptance of new, enhanced or acquired product lines or services; there are changes in information technology (it) trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts; we do not timely optimize complementary product lines and services; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings. despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, 15 table of contents index to financial statements our cloud, license and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, license or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our cloud, license or hardware offerings could affect their ability to properly function or operate with other cloud, license or hardware offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third-party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our cloud, license or hardware offerings or new versions thereof, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our ability to conduct our business operations and the operations of our customers. enterprise customers rely on our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services to run their businesses and errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. if our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the it business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud services, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers information and data, external data, as well as our own data. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. at times, we encounter attempts by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers , partners and suppliers software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third-party data, products or services incorporated into our own. data may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers , suppliers or partners data or the it systems of oracle, our customers, suppliers or partners. security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attacks targeting it products and businesses. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware companies generally, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large amounts of data, including personal information and our customers confidential information and data and other external data, and host or manage parts of our customers businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services, retail, hospitality and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within oracle. 16 table of contents index to financial statements because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage it systems change frequently, grow more complex over time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent against such techniques. our internal it systems continue to evolve and we are often early adapters of new technologies. however, our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. in addition, we may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach. we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation if a cyber-attack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers or suppliers data, other external data, or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are perceived as having security vulnerabilities. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to be not secure. this could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to loss or destruction of information, inappropriate use of proprietary and sensitive data, lawsuits, indemnity obligations, regulatory investigations and financial penalties, and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. as illustrated by the spectre and meltdown threats, our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem. if there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. for example, the european union (eu) and the united states (u.s.) formally entered into a new framework in july 2016 that provides a mechanism for companies to transfer data from eu member states to the u.s. this new framework, called the privacy shield, is intended to address shortcomings identified by the court of justice of the eu in the previous eu-u.s. safe harbor framework, which the court of justice invalidated in october 2015. the privacy shield and other data transfer mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in european courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers to the u.s. or interruption of such transfers. in the event any court blocks transfers to or from a particular jurisdiction on the basis that no transfer mechanisms are legally adequate, this could give rise to operational interruption in the performance of services for customers and internal processing of employee information, regulatory liabilities or reputational harm. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, partners and data providers, to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. this could be true particularly in those jurisdictions where privacy laws or regulators take a broader view of how personal information is defined, therefore subjecting the handling of such data to heightened restrictions that may be obstructive to our operations and the operations of our customers, partners and data providers. this impact may be acute in countries that have passed or are considering passing legislation that requires data to remain localized in country, as this imposes financial costs on any service provider that is required to store data in jurisdictions not of its choosing and nonstandard operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. for example, in 2016, the eu adopted the general data protection regulation (gdpr), which became effective in may 2018. the law establishes new requirements regarding the handling of personal data. non-compliance with the gdpr may result in monetary penalties of up to 4% of worldwide revenue. the gdpr and other changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of data could greatly increase 17 table of contents index to financial statements the size of potential fines related to data protection and our cost of providing our products and services could result in changes to our business practices or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we operate. although we have implemented contracts, policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners, data providers or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our contracts, policies and procedures. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products. we make statements about our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website and press statements. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with these public statements or with u.s. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise cloud, license and hardware products and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general legal, regulatory and political developments. macroeconomic developments like the developments associated with the united kingdom vote to exit the eu or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their it budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of cloud license and on-premise license, hardware and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for license support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. many vendors spend amounts in excess of what oracle spends to develop and market applications, platform and infrastructure technologies including databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence products, among others, which compete with oracle applications, platform and infrastructure offerings. use of our competitors technologies may influence a customer purchasing decision or create an environment that makes it less efficient to utilize oracle products and services. our competition may also adopt business practices that provide customers access to competing products and services at a risk profile that we may not generally find acceptable, which may convince customers to purchase competitor products and services. we could lose 18 table of contents index to financial statements customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies, offer more flexible business practices or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. our hardware business competes with, among others, (1) systems manufacturers and resellers of systems based on our own microprocessors and operating systems and those of our competitors, (2) microprocessor/chip manufacturers, (3) providers of storage products, (4) certain industry-specific hardware manufacturers including those serving communications, hospitality and retail industries and (5) certain cloud providers that build their own it infrastructures. our hardware business causes us to compete with certain companies that historically have been partners. some of these competitors may have more experience than we do in managing a hardware business. certain of these competitors also compete very aggressively on price. a loss in our competitive position could result in lower revenues or profitability, which could adversely impact our ability to realize the revenue and profitability forecasts for our hardware business. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our other cloud and license, hardware and services offerings, in particular our iaas offerings, which could reduce our revenues and profitability. our license support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net cloud license and on-premise license fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings or support pricing. we introduced oracle bring your own license (byol) to paas and universal credit pricing in fiscal 2018 to simplify the way customers purchase and consume our cloud services. oracle byol enables customers to maintain their existing software licenses for oracle paas while expanding their platform technology footprint at a discounted price. oracle universal credit pricing provides a flexible model for customers to access oracle paas and iaas services on demand via a single contract. these changes and any future changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy, commit to large customer deployments at prices that are unprofitable, or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the u.s. our international operations include cloud operations, cloud, software and hardware development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, foreign currency-related regulations, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, market access, import, export and general trade regulations, including but not limited to economic sanctions and embargos. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including the loss of trade privileges. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our 19 table of contents index to financial statements reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating globally, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts to customer demand and our operating results; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries that could lead to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country currency; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; common local business behaviors that are in direct conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies; natural disasters; the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires and increased storm sensitivity); longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; public health risks, social risks and supporting infrastructure stability risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware business and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded company in india, and oracle corporation japan, a publicly traded company in japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. acquisitions present many risks and we may not realize the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we continue to invest billions of dollars to acquire companies, products, services and technologies. we have a selective and active acquisition program and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future because acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; 20 table of contents index to financial statements we may have difficulties (1) managing an acquired company technologies or lines of business; (2) entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; or (3) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, we may impose our business practices or alter go-to-market strategies that adversely impact the acquired business or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on, our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by (1) claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; (2) pre-existing contractual relationships of an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; (3) unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company practices; and (4) intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, a loss of anticipated tax benefits or other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize the anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew cloud-based subscription contracts or software or hardware support contracts, if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base, if acquired customers do not elect to purchase our technologies due to differing business practices or if contract models of an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may have higher than anticipated costs in continuing support and development of acquired products or services, in general and administrative functions that support new business models, or in compliance with associated regulations that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions, restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition, or have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including stock repurchases, dividend payments and retirement of outstanding indebtedness; 21 table of contents index to financial statements we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we assume from an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results. our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our applications, platform and infrastructure offerings. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results, and financial position. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly certain of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues and hardware revenues, are difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate substantially. for our oracle cloud services, we may use conversion or renewal rates in our forecasts that differ materially from our actual conversion or renewal rates because this business is continuing to evolve and such rates may be unpredictable. for our license business, we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in that business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can prove to be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rates, renewal rates, or in the pipeline itself, could cause us to plan or budget incorrectly and adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rates and renewal rates in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rates can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates and renewal rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates and renewal rates can also be affected by changes in business practices that we implement in our newly acquired companies. these changes may negatively affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large cloud license and on-premise license transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. 22 table of contents index to financial statements we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound, relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to european sovereign and other debt obligations may cause the value of the euro to fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in u.s. dollars after converting our foreign currency results into u.s. dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as certain of these products may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. generally, our revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. we may suspend the program from time to time. as a part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in certain highly inflationary economies relative to the u.s. dollar. we could incur future losses in emerging market countries where we do business should their currencies become designated as highly inflationary. our hardware revenues and profitability have declined and could continue to decline. our hardware business may adversely affect our overall profitability. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: our changes in hardware strategies, offerings and technologies including the development marketing and sale of our own oracle cloud services, which could adversely affect demand for our hardware products; our hardware business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our cloud and license business; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems, such as our oracle exadata database machine, and the de-emphasis of our lower profit margin commodity hardware products, which could adversely affect our hardware revenues because the lower profit products have historically constituted a larger portion of our hardware revenues; 23 table of contents index to financial statements changes in strategies for the development and introduction of new versions or next generations of our hardware products, including the pace at which we offer new versions or next generations of our hardware products, and the related impacts from customers that may defer or delay purchases of existing hardware products and wait for these new releases, all of which could adversely affect our hardware revenues; a greater risk of material charges that could adversely affect our operating results, such as potential write-downs and impairments of our inventories; higher warranty expenses than what we experience in our cloud and license and services businesses; and amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets associated with our hardware business; the close connection between hardware products (which have a finite life) and customer demand for related hardware support in which hardware products that approach the end of their useful lives are less likely to have hardware support contracts renewed by customers; and we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but (1) operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own; (2) have different legacy business practices and go-to-market strategies than our own that we may alter as a part of our integration efforts, which may significantly impact our estimated revenues and profits from the acquired company; (3) leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating; or (4) utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. our hardware offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware business will suffer. designing, developing, manufacturing and introducing new hardware products are complicated processes. the development process for our hardware products is uncertain and requires a high level of innovation. after the development phase, we must be able to forecast customer demand and manufacture new hardware products in sufficient volumes to meet this demand and do so in a cost-effective manner. our build-to-order manufacturing model, in which our hardware products generally are not built until after customers place orders, may from time to time experience delays in delivering our hardware products to customers in a timely manner. these delays could cause our customers to purchase hardware products and services from our competitors. we must also manage new hardware product introductions and transitions to minimize the impact of customer delayed purchases of existing hardware products in anticipation of new hardware product releases. it is also possible that we could experience design or manufacturing flaws, which could delay or prevent the production of the components for which we have previously committed to pay or need to fulfill orders from customers and could also prevent the production of our hardware products or cause our hardware products to be returned, recalled or rejected resulting in lost revenues, increases in warranty costs or costs related to remediation efforts, damage to our reputation, penalties and litigation. we depend on suppliers to design, develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by industry consolidation and component constraints or shortages, natural disasters, political unrest, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns, or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant shortages, delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary technologies, parts or components from a particular vendor. if we had to find a new supplier for these technologies, parts and components, hardware product shipments could be delayed, which would adversely affect our hardware revenues. we could also experience fluctuations in component prices, which, if unanticipated, could negatively affect our hardware business cost structure. additionally, we could experience changes in shipping and logistics of our hardware products, which could result in fluctuations in prices and negatively impact our hardware margins. these factors may make it difficult for us to plan and procure appropriate component inventory levels in a timely fashion to meet customer demand for our hardware products. therefore, we may experience component inventory 24 table of contents index to financial statements shortages, which may result in production delays or customers choosing to purchase fewer hardware products from us or hardware products from our competitors. we negotiate supply commitments with vendors early in the manufacturing process to ensure we have sufficient technologies and components for our hardware products to meet anticipated customer demand. we must also manage our levels of older component inventories used in our hardware products to minimize inventory write-offs or write-downs. if we have excess inventory, it may be necessary to write-down the inventory, which would adversely affect our operating results. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we are susceptible to third-party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the design, manufacturing, assembly and delivery of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the u.s. our reliance on these third parties reduces our control over the manufacturing and delivery process, exposing us to risks, including reduced control over quality assurance, product costs, product supply and delivery delays as well as the political and economic uncertainties and natural disasters of the international locations where certain of these third-party manufacturers have facilities and operations. some countries may raise national security concerns or impose market access restrictions based on location of manufacturing or sourcing. any manufacturing disruption or logistics delays by these third parties could impair our ability to fulfill orders for these hardware products for extended periods of time. if we are unable to manage our relationships with these third parties effectively, or if these third parties experience delays, disruptions, capacity constraints, regulatory issues or quality control problems in their operations, or fail to meet our future requirements for timely delivery, our ability to ship and deliver certain of our hardware products to our customers could be impaired and our hardware business could be harmed. we endeavor to continue simplifying our supply chain processes by reducing the number of third-party manufacturing partners and the number of locations where these third-party manufacturers build our hardware products. we therefore have become more dependent on a fewer number of these manufacturing partners and locations. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. if we are required to change third-party manufacturers, our ability to meet our scheduled hardware products deliveries to our customers could be adversely affected, which could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our cloud and license, and hardware indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our cloud and license, and hardware indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any 25 table of contents index to financial statements patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the u.s. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect to continue to receive such claims as: we continue to acquire companies and expand into new businesses; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and non-practicing entities continue to assert intellectual property infringement in our industry segments. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce, including our hardware employees and direct sales force, in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, change in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, these types of restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs, increased sales and marketing costs and temporary reduced productivity while the employees adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or may not do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management, including our chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and founder, our chief executive officers, other members of our executive team and other key employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot guarantee that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. 26 table of contents index to financial statements we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. in addition, changes to immigration and labor law policies may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent. our general compensation program includes restricted stock units, performance equity and stock options, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. we continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, such as reducing the number of employees granted equity awards or the number of equity awards granted per employee and granting alternative forms of stock-based compensation, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and are subject to procurement laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of those contracts. governmental entities are variously pursuing policies that affect our ability to sell our products and services. changes in government procurement policy, priorities, technology initiatives, and/or contract award criteria may negatively impact our potential for growth in the government sector. we are also subject to early termination of our contracts. many governmental entities have the right to terminate contracts at any time, without cause. for example, the u.s. federal government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts at its convenience, or for default based on our performance. u.s. federal contracts are subject to the congressional approval of appropriations to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts with u.s. state and local governments, foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. contracts may be terminated based upon a lack of appropriated funds. there is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending as governments continue to face significant deficit reduction pressures. this may adversely impact spending on government programs. government contracts laws and regulations impose certain risks, and contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations. if violations of law are found, they could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing our cloud and license, and hardware offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. an important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. 27 table of contents index to financial statements business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas, some of which include emerging market international locations that may be less stable relative to running such business operations solely within the u.s. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems and processes could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, including some of our cloud offerings, and enabling a seamless customer experience with respect to our customer facing back office processes. a major earthquake or fire, political, social or other disruption to infrastructure that supports or operations or other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management attention away from running our core business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. in particular, the recently enacted u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act) significantly changed how corporations are taxed in the united states, which has had and we expect will continue to have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. due to the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the tax act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended may 31, 2018. the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service (irs), and other standards-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the tax act will be applied that is different from our interpretation. the tax act requires complex computations not previously required or produced, and significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of the law were made in producing our provisional estimates. as we complete our analyses, and interpret any additional guidance, we may adjust the provisional amounts we have recorded, and those adjustments may materially impact our provision for income taxes in the period in which the adjustments are made. we also anticipate that uncertainty in the application of the tax act to our ongoing operations as well as possible adverse future law changes attributable to changes in the u.s. political environment could have an adverse impact on our future tax rate. other countries also continue to consider enacting new laws, including changes in withholding tax regimes and the imposition of taxes targeted at certain technology businesses (some of which may be made in response to the tax act), that could adversely affect us. as a part of our income tax structure, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations made in the ordinary course of business where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. although we have negotiated a number of agreements with certain taxing jurisdictions, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in recent periods, transfer pricing audits in many foreign jurisdictions have become increasingly contentious. similarly, certain jurisdictions are increasingly raising concerns about certain withholding tax matters under current law. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by shifts of earnings from jurisdictions or regimes that have relatively lower statutory tax rates to those in which the rates are relatively higher. 28 table of contents index to financial statements we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the united states and various foreign jurisdictions that have uncertain applicability to the businesses in which we are engaged. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to accounting standards codification (asc) 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or impairment of intangible assets; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will adversely impact our operating results for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) included elsewhere in this annual report. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2018, we had an aggregate of $60.9 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2018 and calendar year 2055 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating 29 table of contents index to financial statements could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers, as well as local testing and labelling requirements. compliance with these environmental and other laws could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware businesses. regulatory, market, and competitive pressures regarding the energy intensity and energy mix for our data center operations may also grow. the u.s. securities and exchange commission has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware end products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation, such as the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs), the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive) and china regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the eu, china and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. the cumulative impact of international environmental legislation could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market regarding new products, product enhancements or technological advances by our competitors or us and any announcements by us of acquisitions, major transactions, or management changes could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could adversely affect our stock price. our stock price could also be affected by factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors or analysts valuation measures for our stock, earnings announcements where our financial results differ from our guidance or investors expectations, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. in fiscal 2018, our board of directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. 30 table of contents index to financial statements quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 65 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $67.3 billion and $66.1 billion as of may 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment-grade credit ratings or financial institutions that meet investment-grade ratings criteria, which we believe mitigates credit risk and certain other risks. in addition, as of may 31, 2018, substantially all of our marketable securities were high quality with approximately 26% having maturity dates within one year and 74% having maturity dates within one to five years (a description of our marketable securities held is included in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). we held a mix of both fixed and floating-rate debt securities. fixed rate securities may have their market value adversely impacted as interest rates increase, 65 table of contents index to financial statements while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may vary due to changes in interest rates or we may realize losses if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however because we classify our debt securities as available for sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary. the fair values of our fixed-rate debt securities are impacted by interest rate movements and if interest rates would have been higher by 50 basis points as of may 31, 2018 and 2017 we estimate the change would have decreased the fair values of our marketable securities holdings by $308 million and $348 million, respectively. substantially all of our marketable securities are designated as available-for-sale. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2018 and 2017, total interest income was $1.2 billion and $802 million, respectively, with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments yielding an average 1.73% and 1.47%, respectively, on a worldwide basis. interest expense risk interest expense risk interest rate swap agreements and cross-currency interest rate swap agreements our total borrowings were $60.9 billion as of may 31, 2018, consisting of $56.9 billion of fixed-rate borrowings, $1.2 billion of floating-rate borrowings (floating-rate notes) and $2.8 billion of other borrowings, primarily under the 2018 credit agreements. we have entered into certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 2.375% senior notes due january 2019 (january 2019 notes), our $2.0 billion of 2.25% senior notes due october 2019 (october 2019 notes), our $1.5 billion of 2.80% senior notes due july 2021 (july 2021 notes), and our april 2038 notes, so that the interest payable on these senior notes effectively became variable based on libor. we have also entered into cross-currency interest rate swap agreements to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our july 2025 notes by effectively converting the fixed-rate, euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, u.s. dollar denominated debt based on libor. the critical terms of the swap agreements match the critical terms of the january 2019 notes, october 2019 notes, july 2021 notes, april 2038 notes and july 2025 notes that the swap agreements pertain to, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. we do not use these swap arrangements for trading purposes. we are accounting for these swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging (asc 815). the fair values of these fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements as of may 31, 2018 and 2017 were a $26 million net loss and a $40 million gain, respectively. we estimate that the changes in the fair values of these swap agreements during fiscal 2018 and 2017 were primarily attributable to an increase in forward interest rate prices. if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points as of may 31, 2018 and 2017, the change would have decreased the fair values of the fixed to variable swap agreements by $315 million and $153 million, respectively. by issuing the floating-rate notes and by entering into the aforementioned swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2018 and 2017, if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points, the change would have increased our interest expense annually by approximately $86 million and $73 million, respectively, as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and floating-rate borrowings. additional details regarding our senior notes and related swap agreements are included in notes 7 and 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. 66 table of contents index to financial statements currency risk foreign currency transaction risk foreign currency forward contracts we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. neither do we use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. given the short duration of the forward contracts, amounts recorded generally are not significant. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for forward contracts in an unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for forward contracts in an unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.4 billion as of each of may 31, 2018 and 2017 and the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $1.4 billion as of each of may 31, 2018 and 2017. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2018 and 2017. net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $74 million, $152 million and $110 million in fiscal 2018, 2017 and 2016, respectively. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown. foreign currency translation risk impact on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report). as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2018, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of may 31, 2018 increased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate from may 31, 2017. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effects of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars was an increase of $57 million for fiscal 2018, and decreases of $86 million and $115 million in fiscal 2017 and 2016, respectively. if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly would have been weaker by 10% as of may 31, 2018 and may 31, 2017 the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would have decreased by approximately $555 million and $518 million, respectively, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances. 67 table of contents index to financial statementsrisk factors 16 risk factors included elsewhere in this annual report. available information our annual report on form 10-k, quarterly reports on form 10-q, current reports on form 8-k and amendments to those reports filed pursuant to sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the securities exchange act of 1934, as amended, are available, free of charge, on the sec's website at www.sec.gov and our investor relations website at www.oracle.com/investor as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such materials with, or furnish it to, the sec. we use our investor relations website as a means of disclosing material non-public information. accordingly, investors should monitor our investor relations website, in addition to following our press releases, sec filings and public conference calls and webcasts. in addition, information regarding our environmental policy and global sustainability initiatives and solutions are also available on our website www.oracle.com/corporate/citizenship . the information posted on or accessible through our website is not incorporated into this annual report. 14 table of contents index to financial statements information about our executive officers our executive officers are listed below. name office(s) lawrence j. ellison chairman of the board of directors and chief technology officer safra a. catz chief executive officer and director mark v. hurd chief executive officer and director jeffrey o. henley vice chairman of the board of directors edward screven executive vice president, chief corporate architect dorian e. daley executive vice president and general counsel william corey west executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer mr. ellison, 74, has been our chairman of the board and chief technology officer since september 2014. he served as our chief executive officer from june 1977, when he founded oracle, until september 2014. he has served as a director since june 1977. he previously served as our chairman of the board from may 1995 to january 2004. he currently serves as a director of tesla, inc. ms. catz, 57, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. she served as our president from january 2004 to september 2014, our chief financial officer most recently from april 2011 until september 2014 and a director since october 2001. she was previously our chief financial officer from november 2005 until september 2008 and our interim chief financial officer from april 2005 until july 2005. prior to being named our president, she held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1999. she currently serves as a director of the walt disney company and she previously served as a director of hsbc holdings plc. mr. hurd, 62, has been our chief executive officer since september 2014. he served as our president from september 2010 to september 2014 and a director since september 2010. prior to joining us, he served as chairman of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from september 2006 to august 2010 and as chief executive officer, president and a member of the board of directors of hewlett-packard company from april 2005 to august 2010. mr. henley, 74, has served as our vice chairman of the board since september 2014. he previously served as our chairman of the board from january 2004 to september 2014 and has served as a director since june 1995. he served as our executive vice president and chief financial officer from march 1991 to july 2004. mr. screven, 54, has been executive vice president, chief corporate architect since may 2015. he served as our senior vice president, chief corporate architect from november 2006 to april 2015 and as vice president, chief corporate architect from january 2003 to november 2006. he held various other positions with us since joining oracle in 1986. ms. daley, 60, has been our executive vice president and general counsel since april 2015. she served as our secretary from october 2007 until october 2017 and she was our senior vice president, general counsel from october 2007 to april 2015. she served as our vice president, legal, associate general counsel and assistant secretary from june 2004 to october 2007, as associate general counsel and assistant secretary from oc tober 2001 to june 2004 and as associate general counsel from february 2001 to october 2001. she held various other positions with us since joining oracle's legal department in 1992. mr. west, 57, has been our executive vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer since april 2015. he served as our senior vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from february 2008 to april 2015 and served as our vice president, corporate controller and chief accounting officer from april 2007 to february 2008. his previous experience includes 14 years with arthur andersen llp, most recently as a partner. 15 table of contents index to financial statements item 1a. r isk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances, intense competition, changing delivery models and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our license, hardware or cloud offerings or renew license support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud products and services, including the launch of the oracle autonomous data warehouse cloud service. the oracle autonomous data warehouse cloud service offers automation based on machine learning and we have guaranteed, among other matters, that it will reduce customer downtime to less than 30 minutes a year and that amazon data warehouse customers will see a significant cost reduction if they migrate their workloads to our offering. machine learning and artificial intelligence are increasingly driving innovations in technology but if they fail to operate as anticipated or the oracle autonomous data warehouse cloud service or our other products do not perform as promised, our business and reputation may be harmed. in addition, our business may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames; infrastructure costs to deliver new or enhanced products and services take longer or result in greater costs than anticipated; there is a delay in market acceptance of and difficulty in transitioning new and existing customers to new, enhanced or acquired product lines or services; there are changes in information technology (it) trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts; we do not optimize complementary product lines and services in a timely manner; or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. our oracle cloud strategy, including our oracle software-as-a-service (saas) and infrastructure-as-a-service (iaas) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we provide our cloud and other offerings to customers worldwide via deployment models that best suit their needs, including via our cloud-based saas and iaas offerings. as these business models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our cloud and license offerings. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. 16 table of contents index to financial statements as customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware product arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. customers generally purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the subscriptions. consequently, any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings may not be immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our license and hardware product arrangements , which are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related licenses and hardware products . we have also acquired a number of cloud computing companies, and the integration of these companies into our oracle cloud strategy may not be as efficient or scalable as anticipated, which could adversely affect our ability to fully realize the benefits anticipated from these acquisitions. we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings. despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our cloud, license and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding or manufacturing errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, license or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our cloud, license or hardware offerings could affect their ability to properly function, integrate or operate with other cloud, license or hardware offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third-party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our cloud, license or hardware offerings or new versions of these offerings, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle's business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our and our customers' abilities to conduct business operations and to ensure accuracy in financial processes and reporting, and may result in unanticipated costs. enterprise customers rely on our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services to run their businesses and errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services could expose us to product liability, performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. if our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers' data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the it business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud services, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers' information and data, external data, as well as our own data. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. at times, we encounter attempts by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers', partners' and suppliers' software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third-party data, products or services incorporated into our own. our products and services, including our oracle cloud services may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers', suppliers' or partners' data or the it systems of oracle, our customers, suppliers or partners. 17 table of contents index to financial statements security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-a ttacks targeting it products and businesses. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware companies generally, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it com panies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large am ounts of data, including personal information and our customers' confidential information and data, and host or manage parts of our customers' businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data uch as health sciences, financial services, retail, hospitality and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within oracle. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage it systems change frequently, grow more complex over time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent against such techniques. our internal it systems continue to evolve and we are often early adapters of new technologies. however, our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. in addition, we may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach. we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation if a cyber-attack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers' or suppliers' data, other external data, or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have or are perceived as having security vulnerabilities. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to not be secure. this could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenues and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to loss or destruction of information, inappropriate use of proprietary and sensitive data, lawsuits, indemnity obligations, regulatory investigations and financial penalties, and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem. if there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to consumer privacy and data protection. as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, partners and data providers, to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. for example, certain data transfer mechanisms are currently subject to challenges in european courts, which may lead to uncertainty about the legal basis for data transfers to the u.s. or interruption of such transfers. in the event any court blocks transfers to or from a particular jurisdiction on the basis that no transfer mechanisms are legally adequate, this could give rise to operational interruption in the performance of services for customers and internal processing of employee information, regulatory liabilities or reputational harm. this impact could also occur in those jurisdictions where privacy laws or regulators take a broader view of how personal information is defined, therefore subjecting the handling of such data to heightened restrictions that may be obstructive to our operations and the operations of our customers, partners and data providers. this impact could be acute in countries that have passed or are considering passing legislation that requires data to remain localized in country, as this imposes financial costs on any service provider that is required to store data in jurisdictions not of its choosing and nonstandard operational processes that are difficult and costly to integrate with global processes. 18 table of contents index to financial statements in the wake of the european union general data protection regulation (gdpr), the rate of global consideration and adoption of privacy laws has increased, giving rise to more global jurisdictions in which regulatory in quiries and audits may be requested of oracle, and if not deemed to be in compliance, could result in enf orcement actions and/or fines. th is is true in the u.s. where california recently enacted the california consumer privacy act (ccpa) effective in janua ry 2020, congress is considering several privacy bills at the federal level , and other state legislatures are considering privacy laws. regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. the gdpr, which became effective in may 2018, provides for monetary penalties of up to 4% of an organization's worldwide revenue. one european data protection regulator has fined a major u.s. technology company eur 50 million for its data handling practices. the u.s. federal trade commissio n continues to fine companies on a regular basis for unfair and deceptive data protection practices, and these fines may increase in size. the ccpa provides for statutory damages on a per violation basis that could be very large in the event of a significa nt data security b reach or other ccpa violation. taken together, the changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of data could greatly increase the size of potential fines related to data protection , a nd our cost of providing our products and services could result in changes to our business practices or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we operate. although we have implemented contracts, policies and procedures des igned to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners, data providers or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our contracts, policies and procedures. additionall y, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products . we make statements about our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website and press statements. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with these public statements or with u.s. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: general economic and business conditions; overall demand for enterprise cloud, license and hardware products and services; governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities; and general legal, regulatory and political developments. macroeconomic developments like the developments associated with the united kingdom's vote to exit the eu (brexit), evolving trade policies between the u.s. and international trade partners, or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their it budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. 19 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, potential public health crises and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and politica l uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of cloud license and on-premise license, hardware an d related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for license support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. many vendors spend amounts in excess of what oracle spends to develop and market applications and infrastructure technologies including databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence, compute, storage and networking products, among others, which compete with oracle applications and infrastructure offerings. use of our competitors' technologies may influence a customer's purchasing decision or create an environment that makes it less efficient to utilize or migrate to oracle products and services. our competition may also adopt business practices that provide customers access to competing products and services at a risk profile that we may not generally find acceptable, which may convince customers to purchase competitor products and services. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies, offer more flexible business practices or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our other cloud and license, hardware and services offerings, and we may also incur increased cloud delivery expenses as we expand our cloud operations and update our infrastructure, all of which could reduce our revenues and/or profitability. our license support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net license fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings. we introduced oracle bring your own license (byol) and universal credit pricing to simplify the way customers purchase and consume our cloud services. oracle byol enables customers to maintain their existing software licenses for oracle infrastructure while expanding their platform technology footprint at a discounted price. oracle universal credit pricing provides a flexible model for customers to access oracle infrastructure services on demand via a single contract. any future changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy, commit to large customer deployments at prices that are unprofitable, or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models. 20 table of contents index to financial statements our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the u.s. our international operations include cloud operations, cloud, software and hardware development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, cons ulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, foreign currency-related regulations, anti-competition regulations, prohibitions on payments to governmental officials, market access, tariffs, import, export and general trade regulations, including but not limited to economic sanctions and embargos. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including the loss of trade privileges. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management's attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, but no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating globally, including those related to: general economic conditions in each country or region; fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts on customer demand and our operating results; difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries that could lead to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country's currency; regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries; political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities; common local business behaviors that are in direct conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies; natural disasters; the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires and increased storm sensitivity); longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable; overlapping tax regimes; public health risks, social risks and supporting infrastructure stability risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations; and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. 21 table of contents index to financial statements the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware business and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded company in india, and oracle corporation japan, a publicly traded company in japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results . our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our applications and infrastructure offerings. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services. increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our applications to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results, and financial position. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly certain of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues and hardware revenues, can be difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. for our oracle cloud services, our actual conversion or renewal rates may differ from those used in our forecasts because this business is continuing to evolve and such rates may be unpredictable which could have an adverse effect on our long-term results. for our license business, we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in that business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rates, renewal rates, or in the pipeline itself, could adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rates and renewal rates in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rates can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates and renewal rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies' historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates and renewal rates can also be affected by changes in business practices that we implement in our newly acquired companies. these changes may negatively affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of the revenue value of our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger value orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large license transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. 22 table of contents index to financial statements we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. we conduct a significant number of transactions and ho ld cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound, relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results a nd cash flows, which are reported in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to brexit and european sovereign and other debt obligations may cause the value of the british pound and euro to fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. fl uctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in u.s. dollars after convertin g our foreign currency results into u.s. dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as certain of these products may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. in addition, currency variati ons can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. generally, our reported revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected wh en the dollar weakens. in addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies . in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged against earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. we may suspend the program from time to time. as part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in certain highly inflationary economies relative to the u.s. dollar. we could incur future losses in emerging market countries where we do business should their currencies become designated as highly inflationary. our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. we have in the past restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, change in strategies, acquisitions and other internal and external considerations. in the past, these types of restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs and temporary reduced productivity while the employees adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth, resource redeployment or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or may not do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected. 23 table of contents index to financial statements we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management, including our chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and founder; our chief executive officers; other members of our executive team ; and other key employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and oth er personnel. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare except ions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot guarantee that there will not be additional departures , which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. in addition, changes to immigration and labor law policies may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent. our general compensation program includes restricted stock units and performance-based equity, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. we continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, such as reducing the number of employees granted equity awards or the number of equity awards granted per employee and granting alternative forms of stock-based compensation, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and are subject to procurement laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of those contracts. governmental entities are variously pursuing policies that affect our ability to sell our products and services. changes in government procurement policy, priorities, technology initiatives, and/or contract award criteria may negatively impact our potential for growth in the government sector. we are also subject to early termination of our contracts. many governmental entities have the right to terminate contracts at any time, without cause. for example, the u.s. federal government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts at its convenience, or for default based on our performance. u.s. federal contracts are subject to the congressional approval of appropriations to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts with u.s. state and local governments, foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. contracts may be terminated based upon a lack of appropriated funds. there is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending as governments continue to face significant deficit reduction pressures. this may adversely impact spending on government programs. government contracts laws and regulations impose certain risks, and contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations. if violations of law are found, they could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. 24 table of contents index to financial statements acquisitions present many risks and we may not achieve the financi al and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we continue to make strategic acquisitions of c ompanies, products, services and technologies. we have a selective and active acquisition program and we expect to continue to ma ke acquisitions in the future because acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy. risks we may face in connection with o ur acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities; we may have difficulties (1) managing an acquired company's technologies or lines of business; (2) entering new markets where we have no, or limited, direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; or (3) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies; an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, we may impose our business practices or alter go-to-market strategies that adversely impact the acquired business or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill; our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by (1) claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties; (2) pre-existing contractual relationships that we assume from an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business; (3) unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company's practices; and (4) intellectual property claims or disputes; we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in (1) unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, (2) unfavorable accounting treatment, unexpected increases in taxes due, (3) the loss of anticipated tax benefits or (4) other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition; we may not realize any anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including (1) if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew cloud-based subscription contracts or license support or hardware support contracts, (2) if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base, (3) if acquired customers do not elect to purchase our technologies due to differing business practices or (4) if contract models utilized by an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis; we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies; we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced, delivered and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays; we may incur higher than anticipated costs (1) to support, develop and deliver acquired products or services, (2) for general and administrative functions that support new business models, or (3) to comply with regulations applicable to an acquired business that are more complicated than we had anticipated; we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses; 25 table of contents index to financial statements we may be u nable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, (1) delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, (2) adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions, (3) restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition, or (4) have other adverse effects on our current business and operations; our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including (1) stock repurchases, (2) dividend payments and (3) retirement of outstanding indebtedness, among others; we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms; to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease; and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we may assume in an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our hardware revenues and profitability have declined and could continue to decline. our hardware business may adversely affect our overall profitability. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: our changes in hardware strategies, offerings and technologies which could adversely affect demand for our hardware products; our hardware business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our cloud and license business; our focus on our more profitable oracle engineered systems and the de-emphasis of our lower profit margin commodity hardware products could adversely affect our hardware revenues; changes in strategies and frequency for the development and introduction of new versions or next generations of our hardware products could adversely affect our hardware revenues; a greater risk of material charges that could adversely affect our operating results, such as potential write-downs and impairments of our inventories; higher warranty expenses than what we experience in our cloud and license and services businesses; and amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets associated with our hardware business; decreased customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products approach the end of their useful lives could adversely affect our hardware revenues; and we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but (1) operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own; (2) have different legacy business practices and go-to-market strategies than our own that we may alter as a part of our integration efforts, which may significantly impact our estimated revenues and profits from the acquired company; (3) leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating; or (4) utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. 26 table of contents index to financial statements our hardware offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware business will suffer. we depend on suppliers to develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the nece ssary technologies and components for our hardware products, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supp ly chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by industry consolidation and component constraints or shortages, natural disasters, political unrest, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns, or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant shortag es, delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary technologies, parts or components from a particular vendor. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected . we are susceptible to third-party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing, assembly, delivery and technology or component design of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the u.s. if these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products, we may not be able to find alternate manufacturing sources in a timely or cost-effective manner, if at all. therefore, we continue to explore additional third-party manufacturing partners to drive supply chain continuity. this could cause the loss of sales and existing or potential customers, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies' supply chain operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our cloud and license, and hardware indirect sales channel could affect our future operating results. our cloud and license, and hardware indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants' products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues. we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the u.s. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. 27 table of contents index to financial statements third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property righ ts and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property thr ough asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect to continue to receive such claims as: we continue to expand into new businesses and acquire companies; the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows; the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry; the volume of issued patents continues to increase; and non-practicing entities continue to assert intellectual property infringement in our industry segments. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation; divert management's time and attention from developing our business; require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable; require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products; require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms; require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers; or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing our various product offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. an important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short life cycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years, if at all. business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas, some of which include emerging market international locations that may be less stable relative to running such business operations solely within the u.s. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems and processes could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, including some of our cloud offerings, and enabling a seamless customer experience with respect to our customer facing back office processes. a major earthquake or fire, political, social or other disruption to infrastructure that supports our operations or other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. 28 table of contents index to financial statements adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management's attention away from running our core business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report . we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. in particular, the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act) significantly changed how corporations are taxed in the u.s., which has had and we expect will continue to have a meaningful impact on our provision for income taxes. due to the complexity involved in applying the provisions of the tax act, we made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements for the year ended may 31, 2018. the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service (irs), and other standards-setting bodies may issue guidance on how the provisions of the tax act will be applied that is different from our interpretation. the tax act requires complex computations not previously required or produced, and significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of the law were made in producing our provisional estimates. we have adjusted the provisional amounts and reflected the adjustments in our financial statements for the year ended may 31, 2019 based on the regulatory and other guidance issued to date by the treasury department and irs, but also on judgments and assumptions where uncertainty continues to exist. such uncertainty in the application of the tax act to our ongoing operations as well as possible adverse future law changes attributable to changes in the u.s. political environment could have an adverse impact on our future tax rate. other countries also continue to consider enacting changes to their tax laws that could adversely affect us by increasing taxes imposed on our foreign subsidiaries, including changes in withholding tax regimes and the imposition of taxes targeted at certain technology businesses. more fundamentally, longstanding international tax principles that determine each country's right to tax cross-border transactions are being reconsidered, creating significant uncertainty as to the future level of corporate income tax on our international operations. this re-examination is driven by a perceived need to provide greater taxing rights to market jurisdictions where customers or users are located. various measures are being discussed, including adjustments to transfer pricing rules, limitations on deductions, and imposition of additional withholding taxes. as a part of our income tax structure, there are many intercompany transactions and calculations made in the ordinary course of business where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. although we have negotiated a number of agreements with certain taxing jurisdictions, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in recent periods, transfer pricing audits in many foreign jurisdictions have become increasingly contentious. similarly, certain jurisdictions are increasingly raising concerns about certain withholding tax matters under current law. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by shifts of earnings from jurisdictions or regimes that have relatively lower statutory tax rates to those in which the rates are relatively higher. 29 table of contents index to financial statements we are also subject to non-income b ased taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions that have uncertain applicability to the businesses in which we are engaged. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals . charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to accounting standards codification (asc) 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses; impairment of goodwill or impairment of intangible assets; amortization of intangible assets acquired; a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired; identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first; charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure; charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition; and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will adversely impact our operating results for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) included elsewhere in this annual report. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2019, we had an aggregate of $56.3 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2019 and calendar year 2055 and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. 30 table of contents index to financial statements we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or t hat the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense re lating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers, as well as local testing and labelling requirements. compliance with these ever-changing environmental and other laws in a timely manner could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware businesses. regulatory, market, and competitive pressures regarding the energy intensity and energy mix for our data center operations may also grow. the sec has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware end-products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation, such as the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs), the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive) and china's regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the eu, china and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. the cumulative impact of international environmental legislation could be significant. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market by us or by our competitors regarding new products, product enhancements, technological advances, acquisitions or major transactions could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could affect our stock price. our stock price could also be affected by factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, earnings announcements where our financial results differ from our guidance or investors' expectations, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. 31 table of contents index to financial statements we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. in fiscal 2019, our board of directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $24.0 billion. the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value . quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitat ive disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $37.8 billion and $67.3 billion as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment-grade credit ratings or financial institutions that meet investment-grade ratings criteria, which we believe mitigates credit risk and certain other risks. in addition, as of may 31, 2019, substantially all of our marketable securities were high quality with approximately 33% having maturity dates within one year and 67% having maturity dates within one to four years (a description of our marketable securities held is included in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). we held a mix of both fixed and floating-rate debt securities. fixed rate securities may have their market values adversely impacted as interest rates increase, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may vary due to changes in interest rates or we may realize losses if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because we classify our debt securities as available for sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary. the fair values of our fixed-rate debt securities are impacted by interest rate movements and if interest rates would have been higher by 50 basis points as of each of may 31, 2019 and 2018 we estimate the change would have decreased the fair values of our marketable securities holdings by $128 million and $308 million, respectively. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2019 and 2018, total interest income was $1.1 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments yielding an average 2.08% and 1.73%, respectively, on a worldwide basis. interest expense risk interest expense risk interest rate swap agreements and cross-currency interest rate swap agreements our total borrowings were $56.3 billion as of may 31, 2019, consisting of $55.4 billion of fixed-rate borrowings, $750 million of floating-rate borrowings (floating-rate notes) and $113 million of other borrowings. as of may 31, 2019, we held certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest obligations associated with our $2.0 billion of 2.25% fixed-rate senior notes due october 2019 (october 2019 notes) and our $1.5 billion of 2.80% fixed-rate senior notes due july 2021 (july 2021 notes), so that the fixed-rate interest payable on these senior notes effectively became variable based on libor. we have also entered into cross-currency interest rate swap agreements to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our 750 million of 3.125% fixed-rate senior notes due july 2025 notes (july 2025 notes) by effectively converting the fixed-rate, euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, u.s. dollar denominated debt based on libor. the critical terms of the swap agreements match the critical terms of the october 2019 notes, july 2021 notes and july 2025 notes that the swap agreements pertain to, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. we do not use these swap arrangements for trading purposes. we are accounting for these swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging (asc 815). the fair values of our outstanding fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements as of may 31, 2019 and 2018 were a $17 million net loss and a $26 million net loss, respectively. we estimate that the changes in the fair values of these swap agreements during fiscal 2019 and 2018 were primarily attributable to an increase in forward interest rate prices. if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, the change would have decreased the collective fair values of the fixed to variable swap agreements by $90 million and $315 million, respectively. 59 table of contents index to financial statements by issuing the floating-rate notes and by entering into the aforementioned swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points, the change would have increased our interest expense a nnually by approximately $ 52 million and $86 million, respectively, as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and floating-rate borrowings. additional details regarding our senior notes and related swap agreements are included in notes 7 and 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report . currency risk foreign currency transaction risk foreign currency forward contracts we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. given the short duration of the forward contracts, amounts recorded generally are not significant. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for forward contracts in an unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for forward contracts in an unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.8 billion and $3.4 billion as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.3 billion and $1.4 billion as of may 31, 2019 and 2018, respectively. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2019 and 2018. net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $111 million, $74 million and $152 million in fiscal 2019, 2018 and 2017, respectively. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown. foreign currency translation risk impact on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to accumulated other 60 table of contents index to financial statements comprehensive loss on our consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report). as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2019, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of may 31, 2019 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate from may 31, 2018. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effects of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars was a decrease of $158 million for fiscal 2019, an increase of $57 million for fiscal 2018 and a decrease of $86 million in fiscal 2017. if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly would have been weaker by 10% as of may 31, 2019 and may 31, 2018 the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would have decreased by approximately $434 million and $555 million, respectively, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances.risk factors 17 risk factors we operate in rapidly changing economic and technological environments that present numerous risks, many of which are driven by factors that we cannot control or predict. the following discussion, as well as our critical accounting policies and estimates discussion in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7), highlights some of these risks. the risks described below are not exhaustive and you should carefully consider these risks and uncertainties before investing in our securities. the covid-19 pandemic has affected how we and our customers are operating our respective businesses, and the duration and extent to which this will impact our future results of operations and our overall financial performance remains uncertain. a novel strain of coronavirus (covid-19) was first identified in late calendar year 2019 and subsequently declared a pandemic by the world health organization in march 2020. the long-term impacts, if any, of the global covid-19 pandemic on our business are currently unknown. we are conducting business as usual with modifications to employee travel, employee work locations, and cancellation of certain marketing events, among other modifications. we will continue to actively monitor the situation and may take further actions that alter our business operations as may be required by federal, state or local authorities or that we determine are in the best interests of our employees, customers, partners, suppliers and stockholders. it is not clear what the potential long-term effects of any such alterations or modifications may have on our business, including the effects on our customers and prospects. we have observed other companies, including customers and partners, taking precautionary and preemptive actions to address the covid-19 pandemic. such companies may take further actions that alter their normal business operations if there are future spikes of covid-19 infections resulting in additional government mandated shutdowns. the conditions caused by the covid-19 pandemic have adversely affected our customers' willingness to purchase our products and delayed prospective customers' purchasing decisions. the impacts of the global covid-19 pandemic on the broader global economy have been swift, dramatic and unpredictable. the latency and duration of these impacts are diverse across geographies and jurisdictions in which we market, sell and develop our offerings. the depth and duration of the current economic declines attributable to the covid-19 pandemic, and any potential economic recoveries, are not currently known. in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2020 we experienced revenue declines compared to the fourth quarter of fiscal 2019 and delayed payments from customers. the effect of the pandemic for fiscal 2021 and future periods is unknown. if we are not able to respond to and manage the impact of the covid-19 pandemic effectively, our business will be harmed. our success depends upon our ability to develop new products and services, integrate acquired products and services and enhance our existing products and services. rapid technological advances, intense competition, changing delivery models and evolving standards in computer hardware and software development and communications infrastructure, changing and increasingly sophisticated customer needs and frequent new product introductions and enhancements characterize the industries in which we compete. if we are unable to develop new or sufficiently differentiated products and services, enhance and improve our product offerings and support services in a timely manner or position and price our products and services to meet demand, customers may not purchase or subscribe to our license, hardware or cloud offerings or renew license support, hardware support or cloud subscriptions contracts. renewals of these contracts are important to the growth of our business. in addition, we cannot provide any assurance that the standards on which we choose to develop new products will allow us to compete effectively for business opportunities in emerging areas. we have continued to refresh and release new offerings of our cloud products and services. machine learning and artificial intelligence are increasingly driving innovations in technology but if they fail to operate as anticipated or our other products do not perform as promised, our business and reputation may be harmed . 17 table of contents index to financial statements in addition, our busines may be adversely affected if: we do not continue to develop and release new or enhanced products and services within the anticipated time frames infrastructure costs to deliver new or enhanced products and services take longer or result in greater costs than anticipated there is a delay in market acceptance of and difficulty in transitioning new and existing customers to new, enhanced or acquired product lines or services there are changes in information technology (it) trends that we do not adequately anticipate or address with our product development efforts we do not optimize complementary product lines and services in a timely manner or we fail to adequately integrate, support or enhance acquired product lines or services. our oracle cloud strategy, including our oracle cloud software-as-a-service and infrastructure-as-a-service (saas and iaas, respectively, and collectively, oracle cloud services ) offerings, may adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we provide our cloud and other offerings to customers worldwide via deployment models that best suit their needs, including via our cloud-based saas and iaas offerings. as these business models continue to evolve, we may not be able to compete effectively, generate significant revenues or maintain the profitability of our cloud offerings. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud and saas delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our cloud and license offerings. if we do not successfully execute our cloud computing strategy or anticipate the cloud computing needs of our customers, our reputation as a cloud services provider could be harmed and our revenues and profitability could decline. as customer demand for our cloud offerings increases, we experience volatility in our reported revenues and operating results due to the differences in timing of revenue recognition between our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware product arrangements relative to our cloud offering arrangements. customers generally purchase our cloud offerings on a subscription basis and revenues from these offerings are generally recognized ratably over the terms of the subscriptions. consequently, any deterioration in sales activity associated with our cloud offerings may not be immediately observable in our consolidated statement of operations. this is in contrast to revenues associated with our license and hardware product arrangements, which are generally recognized in full at the time of delivery of the related licenses and hardware products. in addition, we may not be able to accurately anticipate customer transition from or be able to sufficiently backfill reduced customer demand for our license, hardware and support offerings relative to the expected increase in customer adoption of and demand for our oracle cloud services, which could adversely affect our revenues and profitability. we might experience significant coding, manufacturing or configuration errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings. despite testing prior to the release and throughout the lifecycle of a product or service, our cloud, license and hardware offerings sometimes contain coding, manufacturing or configuration errors that can impact their function, performance and security, and result in other negative consequences. the detection and correction of any errors in released cloud, license or hardware offerings can be time consuming and costly. errors in our cloud, license or hardware offerings could affect their ability to properly function, integrate or operate with other cloud, license or hardware offerings, could delay the development or release of new products or services or new versions of products or services, could create security vulnerabilities in our products or services, and could adversely affect market acceptance of our products or services. this includes third-party software products or services incorporated into our own. if we experience errors or delays in releasing our cloud, license or hardware offerings or new versions of these offerings, our sales could be affected and revenues could decline. in addition, we run oracle's business operations as well as cloud and other services that we offer to our customers on our products and networks. therefore, any flaws could affect our and our customers' abilities to conduct business operations and to ensure accuracy in financial processes and reporting, and may result in unanticipated costs. enterprise customers rely on our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services to run their businesses and errors in our cloud, license and hardware offerings and related services could expose us to product liability, 18 table of contents index to financial statements performance and warranty claims as well as significant harm to our brand and reputation, which could impact our future sales. if our security measures for our products and services are compromised and as a result, our data, our customers' data or our it systems are accessed improperly, made unavailable, or improperly modified, our products and services may be perceived as vulnerable, our brand and reputation could be damaged, the it services we provide to our customers could be disrupted, and customers may stop using our products and services, all of which could reduce our revenue and earnings, increase our expenses and expose us to legal claims and regulatory actions. we are in the it business, and our products and services, including our oracle cloud services, store, retrieve, manipulate and manage our customers' information and data, external data, as well as our own data. we have a reputation for secure and reliable product offerings and related services, and we have invested a great deal of time and resources in protecting the integrity and security of our products, services and the internal and external data that we manage. at times, we encounter attempts by third parties (which may include individuals or groups of hackers and sophisticated organizations, such as state-sponsored organizations, nation states and individuals sponsored by them) to identify and exploit product and service vulnerabilities, penetrate or bypass our security measures, and gain unauthorized access to our or our customers', partners' and suppliers' software, hardware and cloud offerings, networks and systems, any of which could lead to the compromise of personal information or the confidential information or data of oracle or our customers. computer hackers and others may be able to develop and deploy it related viruses, worms, and other malicious software programs that could attack our networks, systems, products and services, exploit potential security vulnerabilities of our networks, systems, products and services, create system disruptions and cause shutdowns or denials of service. this is also true for third-party data, products or services incorporated into our own. our products and services, including our oracle cloud services, may also be accessed or modified improperly as a result of customer, partner, employee or supplier error or malfeasance and third parties may attempt to fraudulently induce customers, partners, employees or suppliers into disclosing sensitive information such as user names, passwords or other information in order to gain access to our data, our customers', suppliers' or partners' data or the it systems of oracle, our customers, suppliers or partners. security industry experts and government officials have warned about the risks of hackers and cyber-attacks targeting it products and businesses. although this is an industry-wide problem that affects software and hardware companies generally, it affects oracle in particular because computer hackers tend to focus their efforts on the most prominent it companies, and they may focus on oracle because of our reputation for, and marketing efforts associated with, having secure products and services. these risks will increase as we continue to grow our cloud offerings and store and process increasingly large amounts of data, including personal information and our customers' confidential information and data, and host or manage parts of our customers' businesses in cloud-based it environments, especially in customer sectors involving particularly sensitive data such as health sciences, financial services, retail, hospitality and the government. we also have an active acquisition program and have acquired a number of companies, products, services and technologies over the years. while we make significant efforts to address any it security issues with respect to our acquired companies, we may still inherit such risks when we integrate these companies within oracle. because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access to, or sabotage it systems change frequently, grow more complex over time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate or implement adequate measures to prevent such techniques. our internal it systems continue to evolve and we are often early adopters of new technologies. however, our business policies and internal security controls may not keep pace with these changes as new threats emerge. in addition, we often experience increased activity of this nature during times of instability, including during the covid-19 pandemic, when our operations may be more susceptible to malfeasance due to operational changes instituted to comply with safety, health and regulatory requirements, among others. we may not discover any security breach and loss of information for a significant period of time after the security breach. we could suffer significant damage to our brand and reputation if a cyber-attack or other security incident were to allow unauthorized access to or modification of our customers' or suppliers' data, other external data, or our own data or our it systems or if the services we provide to our customers were disrupted, or if our products or services are reported to have or are perceived as having security vulnerabilities. customers could lose confidence in the security and reliability of our products and services, including our cloud offerings, and perceive them to not be 19 table of contents index to financial statements secure. this could lead to fewer customers using our products and services and result in reduced revenue and earnings. the costs we would incur to address and fix these security incidents would increase our expenses. these types of security incidents could also lead to loss or destruction of information, inappropriate use of proprietary and sensitive data, lawsuits, indemnity obligations, regulatory investigations and financial penalties, and claims and increased legal liability, including in some cases contractual costs related to customer notification and fraud monitoring. our products operate in conjunction with and are dependent on products and components across a broad ecosystem. if there is a security vulnerability in one of these components, and if there is a security exploit targeting it, we could face increased costs, liability claims, customer dissatisfaction, reduced revenue, or harm to our reputation or competitive position. our business practices with respect to data could give rise to operational interruption, liabilities or reputational harm as a result of governmental regulation, legal requirements or industry standards relating to privacy and data protection. as regulatory focus on privacy issues continues to increase and worldwide laws and regulations concerning the handling of personal information expand and become more complex, potential risks related to data collection and use within our business will intensify. in addition, u.s. and foreign governments have enacted or are considering enacting legislation or regulations, or may in the near future interpret existing legislation or regulations, in a manner that could significantly impact our ability, as well as the ability of our customers, partners and data providers, to collect, augment, analyze, use, transfer and share personal and other information that is integral to certain services we provide. in the wake of the european union general data protection regulation (gdpr), the rate of global consideration and adoption of privacy laws has increased, giving rise to more global jurisdictions in which regulatory inquiries and audits may be requested of oracle, and if we are not deemed to be in compliance, could result in enforcement actions and/or fines. this is true in the u.s., where the california consumer privacy act (ccpa) became effective in january 2020, the u.s. congress is considering several privacy bills at the federal level, and other state legislatures are considering privacy laws. regulators globally are also imposing greater monetary fines for privacy violations. the gdpr, which became effective in may 2018, provides for monetary penalties of up to 4% of an organization's worldwide revenue. these penalties can be significant. for example, one european data protection regulator has fined a major u.s. technology company eur 50 million for its data handling practices. the u.s. federal trade commission continues to fine companies on a regular basis for unfair and deceptive data protection practices, and these fines may increase in size. the ccpa provides for statutory damages on a per violation basis that could be very large in the event of a significant data security breach or other ccpa violation. taken together, the changes in laws or regulations associated with the enhanced protection of personal and other types of data could greatly increase the size of potential fines related to data protection, and our cost of providing our products and services could result in changes to our business practices or even prevent us from offering certain services in jurisdictions in which we operate. although we have implemented contracts, policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, partners, data providers or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our contracts, policies and procedures. additionally, public perception and standards related to the privacy of personal information can shift rapidly, in ways that may affect our reputation or influence regulators to enact regulations and laws that may limit our ability to provide certain products and services . we make statements about our use and disclosure of personal information through our privacy policy, information provided on our website and press statements. any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with these public statements or with u.s. federal, state, or foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations regulating privacy, data security, or consumer protection, public perception, standards, self-regulatory requirements or legal obligations, could result in lost or restricted business, proceedings, actions or fines brought against us or levied by governmental entities or others, or could adversely affect our business and harm our reputation. economic, political and market conditions can adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability, which in turn could adversely affect our stock price. our business is influenced by a range of factors that are beyond our control and that we have no comparative advantage in forecasting. these include: 20 table of contents index to financial statements general economic and business conditions overall demand for enterprise cloud, license and hardware products and services governmental budgetary constraints or shifts in government spending priorities and general legal, regulatory and political developments. macroeconomic developments like the united kingdom leaving the eu (brexit), evolving trade policies between the u.s. and international trade partners, or the occurrence of similar events in other countries that lead to uncertainty or instability in economic, political or market conditions could negatively affect our business, operating results, financial condition and outlook, which, in turn, could adversely affect our stock price. any general weakening of, and related declining corporate confidence in, the global economy or the curtailment of government or corporate spending could cause current or potential customers to reduce or eliminate their it budgets and spending, which could cause customers to delay, decrease or cancel purchases of our products and services or cause customers not to pay us or to delay paying us for previously purchased products and services. in addition, international, regional or domestic political unrest and the related potential impact on global stability, terrorist attacks and the potential for other hostilities in various parts of the world, public health crises such as the outbreak of the novel coronavirus covid-19, and natural disasters continue to contribute to a climate of economic and political uncertainty that could adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition, including our revenue growth and profitability. these factors generally have the strongest effect on our sales of cloud license and on-premise license, hardware and related services and, to a lesser extent, also may affect our renewal rates for license support and our subscription-based cloud offerings. if we are unable to compete effectively, the results of operations and prospects for our business could be harmed. we face intense competition in all aspects of our business. the nature of the it industry creates a competitive landscape that is constantly evolving as firms emerge, expand or are acquired, as technology evolves and as delivery models change. many vendors spend amounts in excess of what oracle spends to develop and market applications and infrastructure technologies including databases, middleware products, application development tools, business applications, collaboration products and business intelligence, compute, storage and networking products, among others, which compete with oracle applications and infrastructure offerings. use of our competitors' technologies influences a customer's purchasing decision or creates an environment that makes it less efficient to utilize or migrate to oracle products and services. our competitors may also adopt business practices that provide customers access to competing products and services at a risk profile that we may not generally find acceptable, which may convince customers to purchase competitor products and services. we could lose customers if our competitors introduce new competitive products, add new functionality, acquire competitive products, reduce prices, better execute on their sales and marketing strategies, offer more flexible business practices or form strategic alliances with other companies. we may also face increasing competition from open source software initiatives in which competitors may provide software and intellectual property for free. existing or new competitors could gain sales opportunities or customers at our expense. we may need to change our pricing models to compete successfully. the intense competition we face in the sales of our products and services and general economic and business conditions can put pressure on us to change our prices. if our competitors offer deep discounts on certain products or services or develop products that the marketplace considers more valuable, we may need to lower prices, introduce pricing models and offerings that are less favorable to us, or offer other favorable terms in order to compete successfully. any such changes may reduce revenues and margins and could adversely affect operating results. additionally, the increasing prevalence of cloud delivery models offered by us and our competitors may unfavorably impact the pricing of our other cloud and license, hardware and services offerings, and we may also incur increased cloud delivery expenses as we expand our cloud operations and update our infrastructure, all of which could reduce our revenues and/or profitability. our license support fees and hardware support fees are generally priced as a percentage of our net license fees and net new hardware products fees, respectively. our competitors may offer lower pricing on their support offerings, which could put pressure on us to further discount our offerings. 21 table of contents index to financial statements we introduced oracle bring your own license (byol) and universal credit pricing to simplify the way customers purchase and consume our cloud services. oracle byol enables customers to maintain their existing software licenses for oracle infrastructure while expanding their iaas footprint at a discounted price. oracle universal credit pricing provides a flexible model for customers to access oracle infrastructure services on demand via a single contract. any future changes to our prices and pricing policies could cause our revenues to decline or be delayed as our sales force implements and our customers adjust to the new pricing policies. some of our competitors may bundle products for promotional purposes or as a long-term pricing strategy, commit to large customer deployments at prices that are unprofitable, or provide guarantees of prices and product implementations. these practices could, over time, significantly constrain the prices that we can charge for certain of our products. if we do not adapt our pricing models to reflect changes in customer use of our products or changes in customer demand, our revenues could decrease. the increase in open source software distribution may also cause us to change our pricing models . our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks that can adversely affect our operating results. we derive a substantial portion of our revenues from, and have significant operations, outside of the u.s. our international operations include cloud operations, cloud, software and hardware development, manufacturing, assembly, sales, customer support, consulting and other services and shared administrative service centers. compliance with international and u.s. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. these laws and regulations include u.s. laws and local laws which include data privacy requirements, labor relations laws, tax laws, foreign currency-related regulations, anti-competition regulations, anti-bribery laws and other laws prohibiting payments to governmental officials such as the u.s. foreign corrupt practices act (fcpa), market access regulations, tariffs, and import, export and general trade regulations, including but not limited to economic sanctions and embargos. violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers or our employees, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business, including the loss of trade privileges. any such violations could result in prohibitions on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, could delay or prevent potential acquisitions and could also materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. compliance with these laws requires a significant amount of management attention and effort, which may divert management's attention from running our business operations and could harm our ability to grow our business, or may increase our expenses as we engage specialized or other additional resources to assist us with our compliance efforts. our success depends, in part, on our ability to anticipate these risks and manage these difficulties. we monitor our operations and investigate allegations of improprieties relating to transactions and the way in which such transactions are recorded. where circumstances warrant, we provide information and report our findings to government authorities, and in some circumstances such authorities conduct their own investigations and we respond to their requests or demands for information. no assurance can be given that action will not be taken by such authorities or that our compliance program will prove effective. we are also subject to a variety of other risks and challenges in managing an organization operating globally, including those related to: general economic conditions, including the latency in economic impacts and associated economic recoveries, if any, in each country or region public health risks, social risks and supporting infrastructure stability risks, particularly in areas in which we have significant operations fluctuations in currency exchange rates and related impacts on customer demand and our operating results difficulties in transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries that could lead to a devaluation of our net assets, in particular our cash assets, in that country's currency 22 table of contents index to financial statements regulatory changes, including government austerity measures in certain countries that we may not be able to sufficiently plan for or avoid that may unexpectedly impair bank deposits or other cash assets that we hold in these countries or that impose additional taxes that we may be required to pay in these countries political unrest, terrorism and the potential for other hostilities common local business behaviors that are in direct conflict with our business ethics, practices and conduct policies natural disasters the effects of climate change (such as sea level rise, drought, flooding, wildfires and increased storm sensitivity) longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable overlapping tax regimes and reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries. the variety of risks and challenges listed above could also disrupt or otherwise negatively impact the supply chain operations for our hardware business and the sales of our products and services in affected countries or regions. as the majority shareholder of oracle financial services software limited, a publicly traded company in india, and oracle corporation japan, a publicly traded company in japan, we are faced with several additional risks, including being subject to local securities regulations and being unable to exert full control that we would otherwise have if these entities were wholly-owned subsidiaries. any failure to offer high-quality technical support services may adversely affect our relationships with our customers and our financial results . our customers depend on our support organization to resolve technical issues relating to our applications and infrastructure offerings. we may be unable to respond quickly enough to accommodate short-term increases in customer demand for support services or may be inefficient in our resolution of customer support issues. increased customer demand for these services, without corresponding revenues, could increase costs and adversely affect our operating results. any failure to maintain high-quality technical support, or a market perception that we do not maintain high-quality technical support, could adversely affect our reputation, our ability to sell our applications and infrastructure offerings to existing and prospective customers, and our business, operating results, and financial position. we may fail to achieve our financial forecasts due to inaccurate sales forecasts or other factors. our revenues, particularly certain of our cloud license and on-premise license revenues and hardware revenues, can be difficult to forecast. as a result, our quarterly operating results can fluctuate. for our oracle cloud services, our actual conversion or renewal rates may differ from those used in our forecasts because this business is continuing to evolve and such rates may be unpredictable which could have an adverse effect on our long-term results. for our license business, we use a pipeline system, a common industry practice, to forecast sales and trends in that business. our sales personnel monitor the status of all proposals and estimate when a customer will make a purchase decision and the dollar amount of the sale. these estimates are aggregated periodically to generate a sales pipeline. our pipeline estimates can be unreliable both in a particular quarter and over a longer period of time, in part because the conversion rate or closure rate of the pipeline into contracts can be very difficult to estimate. a reduction in the conversion rates, renewal rates, or in the pipeline itself, could adversely affect our business or results of operations. in particular, sudden shifts in regional or global economic activity such as those being experienced with the covid-19 pandemic, a slowdown in it spending or economic conditions generally can unexpectedly reduce the conversion rates and renewal rates in particular periods as purchasing decisions are delayed, reduced in amount or cancelled. the conversion rates can also be affected by the tendency of some of our customers to wait until the end of a fiscal period in the hope of obtaining more favorable terms, which can also impede our ability to negotiate, execute and deliver upon these contracts in a timely manner. in addition, for newly acquired companies, we have limited ability to predict how their pipelines 23 table of contents index to financial statements will convert into sales or revenues for a number of quarters following the acquisition. conversion rates and renewal rates post-acquisition may be quite different from the acquired companies' historical conversion rates. differences in conversion rates and renewal rates can also be affected by changes in business practices that we implement in our newly acquired companies. these changes may negatively affect customer behavior. a substantial portion of the revenue value of our cloud license and on-premise license, and hardware contracts is completed in the latter part of a quarter and a significant percentage of these are larger value orders. because a significant portion of our cost structure is largely fixed in the short term, sales and revenue shortfalls tend to have a disproportionately negative impact on our profitability. the number of large license transactions and, to a lesser extent, hardware products transactions increases the risk of fluctuations in our quarterly results because a delay in even a small number of these transactions could cause our quarterly sales, revenues and profitability to fall significantly short of our predictions. we may experience foreign currency gains and losses. changes in currency exchange rates can adversely affect customer demand and our revenue and profitability. we conduct a significant number of transactions and hold cash in currencies other than the u.s. dollar. changes in the values of major foreign currencies, particularly the euro, japanese yen and british pound, relative to the u.s. dollar can significantly affect our total assets, revenues, operating results and cash flows, which are reported in u.s. dollars. in particular, the economic uncertainties relating to brexit, and european sovereign and other debt obligations may cause the value of the british pound and euro to fluctuate relative to the u.s. dollar. fluctuations in foreign currency rates, including the strengthening of the u.s. dollar against the euro and most other major international currencies, adversely affects our revenue growth in terms of the amounts that we report in u.s. dollars after converting our foreign currency results into u.s. dollars and in terms of actual demand for our products and services as certain of these products may become relatively more expensive for foreign currency-based enterprises to purchase. in addition, currency variations can adversely affect margins on sales of our products in countries outside of the u.s. generally, our reported revenues and operating results are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies and are positively affected when the dollar weakens. in addition, our reported assets generally are adversely affected when the dollar strengthens relative to other currencies as a portion of our consolidated cash and bank deposits, among other assets, are held in foreign currencies and reported in u.s. dollars. in addition, we incur foreign currency transaction gains and losses, primarily related to sublicense fees and other intercompany agreements among us and our subsidiaries that we expect to cash settle in the near term, which are charged to earnings in the period incurred. we have a program which primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts designed to offset the risks associated with certain foreign currency exposures. we may suspend the program from time to time. as part of this program, we enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset at least in part by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in an effort to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transaction gains or losses. a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, and we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. for example, we will experience foreign currency gains and losses in certain instances if it is not possible or cost-effective to hedge our foreign currency exposures, if our hedging efforts are ineffective, or should we suspend our foreign currency forward contract program. our ultimate realized loss or gain with respect to currency fluctuations will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency exposures that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, whether we have entered into foreign currency forward contracts to offset these exposures and other factors. all of these factors could materially impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. we have incurred foreign currency losses associated with the devaluation of currencies in certain highly inflationary economies relative to the u.s. dollar. we could incur future losses in emerging market countries where we do business should their currencies become designated as highly inflationary. our periodic workforce restructurings and reorganizations can be disruptive. we are currently restructuring our workforce and in the past we have restructured or made other adjustments to our workforce in response to management changes, product changes, performance issues, change in strategies, acquisitions and other internal 24 table of contents index to financial statements and external considerations. these types of restructurings have resulted in increased restructuring costs and temporary reduced productivity while the employees adjusted to their new roles and responsibilities. in addition, we may not achieve or sustain the expected growth, resource redeployment or cost savings benefits of these restructurings, or may not do so within the expected timeframe. these effects could recur in connection with future acquisitions and other restructurings and our revenues and other results of operations could be negatively affected . we may lose key employees or may be unable to hire enough qualified employees. we rely on hiring qualified employees and the continued service of our senior management, including our chairman of the board of directors, chief technology officer and founder our chief executive officer other members of our executive team and other key employees. in the technology industry, there is substantial and continuous competition for highly skilled business, product development, technical and other personnel. we may also experience increased compensation costs that are not offset by either improved productivity or higher sales. we may not be successful in recruiting new personnel and in retaining and motivating existing personnel. with rare exceptions, we do not have long-term employment or non-competition agreements with our employees. members of our senior management team have left oracle over the years for a variety of reasons, and we cannot guarantee that there will not be additional departures, which may be disruptive to our operations. we continually focus on improving our cost structure by hiring personnel in countries where advanced technical expertise and other expertise are available at lower costs. when we make adjustments to our workforce, we may incur expenses associated with workforce reductions that delay the benefit of a more efficient workforce structure. we may also experience increased competition for employees in these countries as the trend toward globalization continues, which may affect our employee retention efforts and increase our expenses in an effort to offer a competitive compensation program. in addition, changes to immigration and labor law policies may adversely impact our access to technical and professional talent. our general compensation program includes restricted stock units and performance-based equity, which are important tools in attracting and retaining employees in our industry. if our stock price performs poorly, it may adversely affect our ability to retain or attract employees. we continually evaluate our compensation practices and consider changes from time to time, such as reducing the number of employees granted equity awards or the number of equity awards granted per employee and granting alternative forms of stock-based compensation, which may have an impact on our ability to retain employees and the amount of stock-based compensation expense that we record. any changes in our compensation practices or those of our competitors could affect our ability to retain and motivate existing personnel and recruit new personnel. our sales to government clients expose us to business volatility and risks, including government budgeting cycles and appropriations, procurement regulations, governmental policy shifts, early termination of contracts, audits, investigations, sanctions and penalties. we derive revenues from contracts with the u.s. government, state and local governments, and foreign governments and are subject to procurement laws and regulations relating to the award, administration and performance of those contracts. governmental entities are variously pursuing policies that affect our ability to sell our products and services. changes in government procurement policy, priorities, regulations, technology initiatives and requirements, and/or contract award criteria may negatively impact our potential for growth in the government sector. for example, the u.s. department of defense (dod) has issued cybersecurity requirements for contractors' internal systems through a mandatory cybersecurity contract clause referred to as dfars 7012 and will be implementing a new third-party accreditation program known as the cybersecurity maturity model certification (cmmc). the dfars 7012 and cmmc requirements may impact our lines of business in the u.s. federal government market. compliance with these cybersecurity requirements is complex and costly, and failure to meet the required security controls could limit our ability to sell products and services, directly or indirectly, to the dod and other federal government entities that implement similar cybersecurity requirements. we are also subject to early termination of our contracts. many governmental entities have the right to terminate contracts at any time, without cause. for example, the u.s. federal government may terminate any of our government contracts and subcontracts at its convenience, or for default based on our performance. 25 table of contents index to financial statements u.s. federal contracts are subject to the congressional approval of appropriations to fund the expenditures under these contracts. similarly, our contracts with u.s. state and local governments, foreign governments and their agencies are generally subject to government funding authorizations. contracts may be terminated based upon a lack of appropriated funds. there is increased pressure on governments and their agencies, both domestically and internationally, to reduce spending as governments continue to face significant deficit reduction pressures. this may adversely impact spending on government programs. government contracts laws and regulations impose certain risks, and contracts are generally subject to audits and investigations. if violations of law are found, they could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanctions, including termination of contracts, refund of a portion of fees received, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines and suspensions or debarment from future government business. acquisitions present many risks and we may not achieve the financial and strategic goals that were contemplated at the time of a transaction. we continue to review and consider strategic acquisitions of companies, products, services and technologies. we have a selective and active acquisition program and we expect to continue to make acquisitions in the future because acquisitions are an important element of our overall corporate strategy. risks we may face in connection with our acquisition program include: our ongoing business may be disrupted and our management's attention may be diverted by acquisition, transition or integration activities we may have difficulties (1) managing an acquired company's technologies or lines of business (2) entering new markets where we have no, or limited, direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions or (3) retaining key personnel from the acquired companies an acquisition may not further our business strategy as we expected, we may not integrate an acquired company or technology as successfully as we expected, we may impose our business practices or alter go-to-market strategies that adversely impact the acquired business or we may overpay for, or otherwise not realize the expected return on our investments, which could adversely affect our business or operating results and potentially cause impairment to assets that we recorded as a part of an acquisition including intangible assets and goodwill our operating results or financial condition may be adversely impacted by (1) claims or liabilities that we assume from an acquired company or technology or that are otherwise related to an acquisition, including, among others, claims from government agencies, terminated employees, current or former customers, former stockholders or other third parties (2) pre-existing contractual relationships that we assume from an acquired company that we would not have otherwise entered into, the termination or modification of which may be costly or disruptive to our business (3) unfavorable revenue recognition or other accounting treatment as a result of an acquired company's practices and (4) intellectual property claims or disputes we may fail to identify or assess the magnitude of certain liabilities, shortcomings or other circumstances prior to acquiring a company or technology, which could result in (1) unexpected litigation or regulatory exposure, (2) unfavorable accounting treatment, (3) unexpected increases in taxes due or the loss of anticipated tax benefits or (4) other adverse effects on our business, operating results or financial condition we may not realize any anticipated increase in our revenues from an acquisition for a number of reasons, including (1) if a larger than predicted number of customers decline to renew cloud-based subscription contracts or license support or hardware support contracts, (2) if we are unable to sell the acquired products or service offerings to our customer base, (3) if acquired customers do not elect to purchase our technologies due to differing business practices or (4) if contract models utilized by an acquired company do not allow us to recognize revenues on a timely basis 26 table of contents index to financial statements we may have difficulty incorporating acquired technologies, products, services and their related supply chain operations with our existing lines of business and supply chain infrastructure and maintaining uniform standards, architecture, controls, procedures and policies we may have multiple product lines or services offerings as a result of our acquisitions that are offered, priced, delivered and supported differently, which could cause customer confusion and delays we may incur higher than anticipated costs (1) to support, develop and deliver acquired products or services, (2) for general and administrative functions that support new business models, or (3) to comply with regulations applicable to an acquired business that are more complicated than we had anticipated we may be unable to obtain timely approvals from, or may otherwise have certain limitations, restrictions, penalties or other sanctions imposed on us by worker councils or similar bodies under applicable employment laws as a result of an acquisition, which could adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions and potentially increase our integration and restructuring expenses we may be unable to obtain required approvals from governmental authorities under competition and antitrust laws on a timely basis, if at all, which could, among other things, (1) delay or prevent us from completing a transaction, (2) adversely affect our integration plans in certain jurisdictions, (3) restrict our ability to realize the expected financial or strategic goals of an acquisition, or (4) have other adverse effects on our current business and operations our use of cash to pay for acquisitions may limit other potential uses of our cash, including (1) stock repurchases, (2) dividend payments and (3) retirement of outstanding indebtedness, among others we may significantly increase our interest expense, leverage and debt service requirements if we incur additional debt to pay for an acquisition and we may have to delay or not proceed with a substantial acquisition if we cannot obtain the necessary funding to complete the acquisition in a timely manner or on favorable terms to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease and we may experience additional or unexpected changes in how we are required to account for our acquisitions pursuant to u.s. generally accepted accounting principles, including arrangements that we may assume in an acquisition. the occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, particularly in the case of a larger acquisition or several concurrent acquisitions. our hardware revenues and profitability have declined and could continue to decline. our hardware business may adversely affect our total revenues and overall profitability and related growth rates. we may not achieve our estimated revenue, profit or other financial projections with respect to our hardware business in a timely manner or at all due to a number of factors, including: our changes in hardware offerings, technologies and strategies, including shifting factory locations, which could adversely affect supply and demand for our hardware products our hardware business has higher expenses as a percentage of revenues, and thus has been less profitable, than our cloud and license business our focus on certain of our more profitable oracle engineered systems and certain other hardware products we consider strategic and the de-emphasis of certain of our lower profit margin commodity hardware products could adversely affect our hardware revenues changes in strategies and frequency for the development and introduction of new versions or next generations of our hardware products could adversely affect our hardware revenues 27 table of contents index to financial statements general supply chain material shortages worldwide prior to the outbreak of covid-19, which we expect will be further exacerbated globally as a result of the virus pandemic a greater risk of material charges that could adversely affect our operating results, such as potential write-downs and impairments of our inventories higher warranty expenses than what we experience in our cloud and license and services businesses and amortization and potential impairment of intangible assets associated with our hardware business decreased customer demand for related hardware support as hardware products approach the end of their useful lives, which could adversely affect our hardware revenues and we may acquire hardware companies that are strategically important to us but (1) operate in hardware businesses with historically lower operating margins than our own (2) have different legacy business practices and go-to-market strategies than our own that we may alter as a part of our integration efforts, which may significantly impact our estimated revenues and profits from the acquired company (3) leverage different platforms or competing technologies that we may encounter difficulties in integrating or (4) utilize unique manufacturing processes that affect our ability to scale these acquired products within our own manufacturing operations. our hardware offerings are complex products, and if we cannot successfully manage this complexity, the results of our hardware business will suffer. we depend on suppliers to develop, manufacture and deliver on a timely basis the necessary technologies and components for our hardware products, and there are some technologies and components that can only be purchased from a single vendor due to price, quality, technology, availability or other business constraints. as a result, our supply chain operations could be disrupted or negatively impacted by industry consolidation and component constraints or shortages, natural disasters, political unrest, public health crises such as the outbreak of the novel coronavirus covid-19, changes to trade policies, port stoppages or other transportation disruptions or slowdowns, or other factors affecting the countries or regions where these single source component vendors are located or where the products are being shipped. we may be unable to purchase these items from the respective single vendors on acceptable terms or may experience significant shortages, delays or quality issues in the delivery of necessary technologies, parts or components from a particular vendor. if one or more of the risks described above occurs, our hardware business and related operating results could be materially and adversely affected. we are susceptible to third-party manufacturing and logistics delays, which could result in the loss of sales and customers. we outsource the manufacturing, assembly, delivery and technology or component design of certain of our hardware products to a variety of companies, many of which are located outside the u.s. from time to time, these partners experience production problems or delays or cannot meet our demand for products. to reduce this risk, we continue to explore additional third-party manufacturing partners to drive supply chain continuity, but finding additional manufacturing sources in a timely and cost-effective manner is difficult. third-party manufacturing and logistics delays attributable to the effects of covid-19 caused a loss of sales during our fourth quarter of fiscal 2020. ongoing or future delays in manufacturing could cause the loss of additional sales, delayed revenue recognition or an increase in our hardware products expenses, all of which could adversely affect the margins of our hardware business. these challenges and risks also exist when we acquire companies with hardware products and related supply chain operations and could arise if we alter our manufacturing strategies, suppliers or locations. in some cases, we may be dependent, at least initially, on these acquired companies' supply chain operations or other manufacturing operations that we are less familiar with and thus we may be slower to adjust or react to these challenges and risks. our cloud and license, and hardware indirect sales channels could affect our future operating results. our cloud and license, and hardware indirect channel network is comprised primarily of resellers, system integrators/implementers, consultants, education providers, internet service providers, network integrators and independent software vendors. our relationships with these channel participants are important elements of our cloud, software and hardware marketing and sales efforts. our financial results could be adversely affected if our contracts with channel participants were terminated, if our relationships with channel participants were to deteriorate, if any of our competitors enter into strategic relationships with or acquire a significant channel 28 table of contents index to financial statements participant, if the financial condition or operations of our channel participants were to weaken or if the level of demand for our channel participants' products and services were to decrease. there can be no assurance that we will be successful in maintaining, expanding or developing our relationships with channel participants. if we are not successful, we may lose sales opportunities, customers and revenues . we may not be able to protect our intellectual property rights. we rely on copyright, trademark, patent and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures, controls and contractual commitments to protect our intellectual property rights. despite our efforts, these protections may be limited. unauthorized third parties may try to copy or reverse engineer portions of our products or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property. any patents owned by us may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. any of our pending or future patent applications, whether or not being currently challenged, may not be issued with the scope of the claims we seek, if at all. in addition, the laws of some countries do not provide the same level of protection of our intellectual property rights as do the laws and courts of the u.s. if we cannot protect our intellectual property rights against unauthorized copying or use, or other misappropriation, we may not remain competitive. third parties have claimed, and in the future may claim, infringement or misuse of intellectual property rights and/or breach of license agreement provisions. we periodically receive notices from, or have lawsuits filed against us by, others claiming infringement or other misuse of their intellectual property rights and/or breach of our agreements with them. these third parties include entities that do not have the capabilities to design, manufacture, or distribute products or services or that acquire intellectual property like patents for the sole purpose of monetizing their acquired intellectual property through asserting claims of infringement and misuse. we expect to continue to receive such claims as: we continue to expand into new businesses and acquire companies the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows the use and support of third-party code (including open source code) becomes more prevalent in the industry the volume of issued patents continues to increase and non-practicing entities continue to assert intellectual property infringement in our industry segments. responding to any such claim, regardless of its validity, could: be time consuming, costly and result in litigation divert management's time and attention from developing our business require us to pay monetary damages or enter into royalty and licensing agreements that we would not normally find acceptable require us to stop selling or to redesign certain of our products require us to release source code to third parties, possibly under open source license terms require us to satisfy indemnification obligations to our customers or otherwise adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. we may not receive significant revenues from our current research and development efforts for several years, if at all. developing our various product offerings is expensive and the investment in the development of these offerings often involves a long return on investment cycle. an important element of our corporate strategy is to continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to research and development and related product and service opportunities both through internal investments and the acquisition of intellectual property from companies that we have acquired. accelerated product and service introductions and short lifecycles require high levels of expenditures for research and development that could adversely affect our operating results if not offset by revenue increases. we believe that we must continue to dedicate a significant amount of resources to our 29 table of contents index to financial statements research and development efforts to maintain our competitive position. however, we do not expect to receive significant revenues from these investments for several years , if at all . business disruptions could adversely affect our operating results. a significant portion of our critical business operations are concentrated in a few geographic areas, some of which include emerging market international locations that may be less stable relative to running such business operations solely within the u.s. we are a highly automated business and a disruption or failure of our systems, supply chains and processes could cause delays in completing sales, providing services, including some of our cloud offerings, and enabling a seamless customer experience with respect to our customer facing back office processes. a major earthquake or fire, political, social or other disruption to infrastructure that supports our operations or other catastrophic event or the effects of climate change (such as increased storm severity, drought and pandemics) that results in the destruction or disruption of any of our critical business, supply chains or it systems could severely affect our ability to conduct normal business operations and, as a result, our future operating results could be materially and adversely affected. adverse litigation results could affect our business. we are subject to various legal proceedings. litigation can be lengthy, expensive and disruptive to our operations, and can divert our management's attention away from running our core business. the results of our litigation also cannot be predicted with certainty. an adverse decision could result in monetary damages or injunctive relief that could affect our business, operating results or financial condition. additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits we are involved in is discussed under note 17 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. we may have exposure to additional tax liabilities. as a multinational corporation, we are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions. significant uncertainties exist with respect to the amount of our tax liabilities, including those arising from potential changes in laws in the countries in which we do business and the possibility of adverse determinations with respect to the application of existing laws. many judgments are required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities, and we are regularly under audit by tax authorities, which often do not agree with positions taken by us on our tax returns. any unfavorable resolution of these uncertainties may have a significant adverse impact on our tax rate. increasingly, countries around the world are actively considering or have enacted changes in relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations and interpretations. in particular, the u.s. tax cuts and jobs act of 2017 (the tax act) significantly changed how corporations are taxed in the u.s., which has an ongoing impact on our provision for income taxes. the u.s. treasury department and the internal revenue service (irs), and other standards-setting bodies are continuing to issue guidance on how the provisions of the tax act will be applied and it is possible that the guidance may differ from our interpretation of the legislation. the tax act requires complex computations not previously required or produced, and necessitates that we make significant judgments and assumptions in the interpretation of the law where there is a lack of guidance. such uncertainty in the application of the tax act to our ongoing operations as well as possible adverse future law changes attributable to changes in the u.s. political landscape create the potential for added volatility in our quarterly provision for income taxes and could have an adverse impact on our future tax rate. various democratic proposals would partially or wholly reverse beneficial features of the tax act, such as by raising the u.s. corporate tax rate and increasing the tax on non-u.s. income. a change in party control of the white house and u.s. senate thus could lead to dramatic changes in the tax law and result in an increase in our provision for income taxes. increased federal and state fiscal spending to fund covid-19 relief measures, coupled with a drop in tax revenue from pandemic-related reductions in economic activity, will add to the pressure to raise more tax revenue from federal and state corporate income and other taxes or to enact new types of taxes on businesses and their customers. other countries also continue to consider enacting changes to their tax laws that could adversely affect us by increasing taxes imposed on our revenue streams and foreign subsidiaries, including changes in withholding tax regimes and the imposition of taxes targeted at certain technology businesses. more fundamentally, longstanding international tax principles that determine each country's right to tax cross-border transactions are being 30 table of contents index to financial statements reconsidered, creating significant uncertainty as to the future level of corporate income tax on our international operations. this re-examination is driven by a perceived need to provide greater taxing rights to market jurisdictions where customers or users are located. various measures are being discussed, including adjustments to transfer pricing rules, limitations on deductions, and imposition of additional withholding taxes. the foregoing changes brought about by the tax act in combination with the uncertain international tax environment have upended expectations and the predictability and reliability of the global tax system, leading to the ongoing re-evaluation of our global legal and tax operating structure. the resulting potential modifications to our structure could adversely impact our provision for income taxes. inherent in our global business operations and legal entity structure are many intercompany transactions and calculations made in the ordinary course of business where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. our intercompany transfer pricing has been and is currently being reviewed by the irs and by foreign tax jurisdictions and will likely be subject to additional audits in the future. although we have negotiated a number of agreements with certain taxing jurisdictions, these agreements do not cover substantial elements of our transfer pricing. in recent periods, transfer pricing audits in many foreign jurisdictions have become increasingly contentious. similarly, certain jurisdictions are increasingly raising concerns about certain withholding tax matters under current law. in addition, our provision for income taxes could be adversely affected by shifts of earnings from jurisdictions or regimes that have relatively lower statutory tax rates to those in which the rates are relatively higher. we are also subject to non-income based taxes, such as payroll, sales, use, value-added, net worth, property and goods and services taxes, in both the u.s. and various foreign jurisdictions that have uncertain applicability to the businesses in which we are engaged. although we believe that our income and non-income based tax estimates are reasonable, there is no assurance that the final determination of tax audits or tax disputes will not be different from what is reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. there are risks associated with our outstanding and future indebtedness. as of may 31, 2020, we had an aggregate of $71.6 billion of outstanding indebtedness that will mature between calendar year 2020 and calendar year 2060, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. our ability to pay interest and repay the principal for our indebtedness is dependent upon our ability to manage our business operations, generate sufficient cash flows to service such debt and the other factors discussed in this section. there can be no assurance that we will be able to manage any of these risks successfully. we may also need to refinance a portion of our outstanding debt as it matures. there is a risk that we may not be able to refinance existing debt or that the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of our existing debt. furthermore, if prevailing interest rates or other factors at the time of refinancing result in higher interest rates upon refinancing, then the interest expense relating to that refinanced indebtedness would increase. should we incur future increases in interest expense, our ability to utilize certain of our foreign tax credits to reduce our u.s. federal income tax could be limited, which could unfavorably affect our provision for income taxes and effective tax rate. in addition, changes by any rating agency to our outlook or credit rating could negatively affect the value of both our debt and equity securities and increase the interest amounts we pay on certain outstanding or future debt. these risks could adversely affect our financial condition and results of operations. environmental and other related laws and regulations subject us to a number of risks and could result in significant liabilities and costs. some of our cloud and hardware operations are subject to state, federal and international laws governing protection of the environment, proper handling and disposal of materials used for these products, human health and safety, the use of certain chemical substances and the labor practices of suppliers, as well as local testing and labelling requirements. compliance with these ever-changing environmental and other laws in a timely manner could increase our product design, development, procurement, manufacturing, delivery, cloud operations and administration costs, limit our ability to manage excess and obsolete non-compliant inventory, change our sales activities, or otherwise impact future financial results of our cloud and hardware businesses. any violation of these laws can subject us to significant liability, including fines, penalties and possible prohibition of sales of our products and services into one or more states or countries and result in a material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of our cloud and hardware businesses. 31 table of contents index to financial statements regulatory, market, and competitive pressures regarding the greenhouse gas emissions and energy mix for our data center operations may also grow. the sec has adopted disclosure requirements for companies that use certain conflict minerals (tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold) in their products. our supply chain is multi-tiered, global and highly complex. as a provider of hardware end-products, we are several steps removed from the mining and smelting or refining of any conflict minerals in our supply chain. accordingly, our ability to determine with certainty the origin and chain of custody of conflict minerals is limited. our relationships with customers and suppliers could suffer if we are unable to describe our products as conflict-free. we may also face increased costs in complying with conflict minerals disclosure requirements. a significant portion of our hardware revenues come from international sales. environmental legislation, such as the eu directive on restriction of hazardous substances (rohs), the eu waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee directive) and china's regulation on management methods for controlling pollution caused by electronic information products, may increase our cost of doing business internationally and impact our hardware revenues from the eu, china and other countries with similar environmental legislation as we endeavor to comply with and implement these requirements. the uk government has announced a procurement policy that includes environmental, social and economic sustainability measures. our stock price could become more volatile and your investment could lose value. all of the factors discussed in this section could affect our stock price. the timing of announcements in the public market by us or by our competitors regarding new products, product enhancements, technological advances, acquisitions or major transactions could also affect our stock price. changes in the amounts and frequency of share repurchases or dividends could affect our stock price. our stock price could also be affected by factors, some of which are beyond our control, including, among others: speculation in the press and the analyst community, changes in recommendations or earnings estimates by financial analysts, changes in investors' or analysts' valuation measures for our stock, negative analyst surveys or channel check surveys, earnings announcements where our financial results differ from our guidance or investors' expectations, our credit ratings and market trends unrelated to our performance. a significant drop in our stock price could also expose us to the risk of securities class action lawsuits, which could result in substantial costs and divert management's attention and resources, which could adversely affect our business. we cannot guarantee that our stock repurchase program will be fully implemented or that it will enhance long-term stockholder value. in fiscal 2020, our board of directors approved expansions of our stock repurchase program totaling $30.0 billion. the repurchase program does not have an expiration date and we are not obligated to repurchase a specified number or dollar value of shares. our repurchase program may be suspended or terminated at any time and, even if fully implemented, may not enhance long-term stockholder value. charges to earnings resulting from acquisitions may adversely affect our operating results. under business combination accounting standards pursuant to accounting standards codification (asc) 805, business combinations , we recognize the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed and any non-controlling interests in acquired companies generally at their acquisition date fair values and, in each case, separately from goodwill. goodwill as of the acquisition date is measured as the excess amount of consideration transferred, which is also generally measured at fair value, and the net of the acquisition date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed. our estimates of fair value are based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain. after we complete an acquisition, the following factors could result in material charges and adversely affect our operating results and may adversely affect our cash flows: costs incurred to combine the operations of companies we acquire, such as transitional employee expenses and employee retention, redeployment or relocation expenses impairment of goodwill or impairment of intangible assets amortization of intangible assets acquired a reduction in the useful lives of intangible assets acquired 32 table of contents index to financial statements identification of, or changes to, assumed contingent liabilities, both income tax and non-income tax related, after our final determination of the amounts for these contingencies or the conclusion of the measurement period (generally up to one year from the acquisition date), whichever comes first charges to our operating results to maintain certain duplicative pre-merger activities for an extended period of time or to maintain these activities for a period of time that is longer than we had anticipated, charges to eliminate certain duplicative pre-merger activities, and charges to restructure our operations or to reduce our cost structure charges to our operating results due to expenses incurred to effect the acquisition and charges to our operating results due to the expensing of certain stock awards assumed in an acquisition. substantially all of these costs will be accounted for as expenses that will adversely impact our operating results for the periods in which those costs are incurred. charges to our operating results in any given period could differ substantially from other periods based on the timing and size of our future acquisitions and the extent of integration activities. a more detailed discussion of our accounting for business combinations and other items is presented in the critical accounting policies and estimates section of management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations (item 7) included elsewhere in this annual report. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk 59 quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and interest income risk cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities were $43.1 billion and $37.8 billion as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. our bank deposits and time deposits are generally held with large, diverse financial institutions worldwide with high investment-grade credit ratings or financial institutions that meet investment-grade ratings criteria, which we believe mitigates credit risk and certain other risks. in addition, as of may 31, 2020, substantially all of our marketable securities were high quality with substantially all having maturity dates within one year (a description of our marketable securities held is included in notes 3 and 4 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and liquidity and capital resources above). we held a mix of both fixed and floating-rate debt securities. fixed rate securities may have their market values adversely impacted as interest rates increase, while floating rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates fall. due in part to these factors, our future investment income may vary due to changes in interest rates or we may realize losses if we are forced to sell securities that decline in market value due to changes in interest rates. however, because we classify our debt securities as available for sale, no gains or losses are recognized due to changes in interest rates unless such securities are sold prior to maturity or declines in fair value are determined to be other-than-temporary. the fair values of our fixed-rate debt securities are impacted by interest rate movements and if interest rates would have been higher by 50 basis points as of each of may 31, 2020 and 2019 we estimate the change would have decreased the fair values of our marketable securities holdings by $15 million and $128 million, respectively. we generally do not use our investments for trading purposes. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest income that is generated from our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities. for fiscal 2020 and 2019, total interest income was $527 million and $1.1 billion, respectively, with our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities investments yielding an average 1.47% and 2.08%, respectively, on a worldwide basis. 59 table of contents index to financial statements interest expense risk interest expense risk interest rate swap agreements and cross-currency interest rate swap agreements our total borrowings were $71.6 billion as of may 31, 2020, consisting of $71.5 billion of fixed-rate borrowings and $113 million of other borrowings. as of may 31, 2020, we held certain interest rate swap agreements that have the economic effect of modifying the fixed-interest obligations associated with our $1.5 billion of 2.80% fixed-rate senior notes due july 2021 (july 2021 notes), so that the fixed-rate interest payable on these senior notes effectively became variable based on libor. we have also entered into cross-currency interest rate swap agreements to manage the foreign currency exchange rate risk associated with our 750 million of 3.125% fixed-rate senior notes due july 2025 notes (july 2025 notes) by effectively converting the fixed-rate, euro denominated debt, including the annual interest payments and the payment of principal at maturity, to variable-rate, u.s. dollar denominated debt based on libor. the critical terms of the swap agreements match the critical terms of the july 2021 notes and july 2025 notes that the swap agreements pertain to, including the notional amounts and maturity dates. we do not use these swap arrangements for trading purposes. we are accounting for these swap agreements as fair value hedges pursuant to asc 815, derivatives and hedging (asc 815). the fair values of our outstanding fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements as of may 31, 2020 and 2019 were a $12 million net gain and a $17 million net loss, respectively. we estimate that the changes in the fair values of these swap agreements as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, were primarily attributable to a decrease and increase, respectively, in forward interest rate prices. if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, the change would have decreased the collective fair values of the fixed to variable swap agreements by $63 million and $90 million, respectively. by entering into the aforementioned swap arrangements, we have assumed risks associated with variable interest rates based upon libor. changes in the overall level of interest rates affect the interest expense that we recognize in our consolidated statements of operations. an interest rate risk sensitivity analysis is used to measure interest rate risk by computing estimated changes in cash flows as a result of assumed changes in market interest rates. as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, if libor-based interest rates would have been higher by 100 basis points, the change would have increased our interest expense annually by approximately $24 million and $52 million, respectively, as it relates to our fixed to variable interest rate swap agreements and related borrowings, and as of may 31, 2019, as it related to our floating-rate borrowings. additional details regarding our senior notes and related swap agreements are included in notes 7 and 10 of notes to consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report. currency risk foreign currency transaction risk foreign currency forward contracts we transact business in various foreign currencies and have established a program that primarily utilizes foreign currency forward contracts to offset the risks associated with the effects of certain foreign currency exposures. under this program, our strategy is to enter into foreign currency forward contracts so that increases or decreases in our foreign currency exposures are offset by gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts in order to mitigate the risks and volatility associated with our foreign currency transactions. we may suspend this program from time to time. our foreign currency exposures typically arise from intercompany sublicense fees, intercompany loans and other intercompany transactions. our foreign currency forward contracts are generally short-term in duration. we neither use these foreign currency forward contracts for trading purposes nor do we designate these forward contracts as hedging instruments pursuant to asc 815. accordingly, we record the fair values of these contracts as of the end of our reporting period to our consolidated balance sheet with changes in fair values recorded to our consolidated statement of operations. given the short duration of the forward contracts, amounts recorded generally are not significant. the balance sheet classification for the fair values of these forward contracts is prepaid expenses and other current assets for forward contracts in an unrealized gain position and other current liabilities for forward contracts in an unrealized loss position. the statement of operations classification for 60 table of contents index to financial statements changes in fair values of these forward contracts is non-operating income, net for both realized and unrealized gains and losses. we expect that we will continue to realize gains or losses with respect to our foreign currency exposures, net of gains or losses from our foreign currency forward contracts. our ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to foreign currency exposures will generally depend on the size and type of cross-currency transactions that we enter into, the currency exchange rates associated with these exposures and changes in those rates, the net realized gain or loss on our foreign currency forward contracts and other factors. the notional amounts of the forward contracts we held to purchase u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $4.2 billion and $3.8 billion as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively, and the notional amounts of forward contracts we held to sell u.s. dollars in exchange for other major international currencies were $3.9 billion and $3.3 billion as of may 31, 2020 and 2019, respectively. the fair values of our outstanding foreign currency forward contracts were nominal at may 31, 2020 and 2019. net foreign exchange transaction losses included in non-operating income, net in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations were $185 million and $111 million in fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. as a large portion of our consolidated operations are international, we could experience additional foreign currency volatility in the future, the amounts and timing of which are unknown. foreign currency translation risk impact on cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities fluctuations in foreign currencies impact the amount of total assets and liabilities that we report for our foreign subsidiaries upon the translation of these amounts into u.s. dollars. in particular, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we report in u.s. dollars for a significant portion of the cash held by these subsidiaries is subject to translation variance caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of each respective reporting period (the offset to which is substantially recorded to aocl on our consolidated balance sheets and is also presented as a line item in our consolidated statements of comprehensive income included elsewhere in this annual report). as the u.s. dollar fluctuated against certain international currencies as of the end of fiscal 2020, the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities that we reported in u.s. dollars for foreign subsidiaries that hold international currencies as of may 31, 2020 decreased relative to what we would have reported using a constant currency rate from may 31, 2019. as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, the estimated effects of exchange rate changes on our reported cash and cash equivalents balances in u.s. dollars was a decrease of $125 million and $158 million for fiscal 2020 and 2019, respectively. if overall foreign currency exchange rates in comparison to the u.s. dollar uniformly would have been weaker by 10% as of may 31, 2020 and may 31, 2019 the amount of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities we would report in u.s. dollars would have decreased by approximately $491 million and $434 million, respectively, assuming constant foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances.