quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states as well as sales activities in europe and australia. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which are the euro, the british pound and the australian dollar. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on cash flows from our foreign currency sales transactions, we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge our foreign currency-denominated net monetary assets or liabilities. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies in the past have reduced, and in the future may reduce, our u.s. dollar return on these sales and negatively impact our financial condition. prior to 2002, we did not hedge our exposure to the impact of fluctuating foreign exchange rates on forecasted sales. in january 2002, we began to use forward contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro currency. in recent years, due to the weakening of the u.s. dollar, foreign currency exchange fluctuations have positively impacted product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the favorable foreign currency environment has been moderated by the hedge contracts that we had entered into. the following table summarizes the notional amounts, average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2004. all contracts have maturities of one year or less. average rates are stated in terms of the amount of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2004 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars in thousands): currency notional amount average rate fair value december 31, 2004 british pound $ 48,095 0.5509 $ (2,178 ) euro 525,501 0.7716 (25,783 ) australian dollar 7,146 1.2972 (2 ) the total notional amount of $580.7 million and fair value of ($28.0) million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2004 compares with a total notional amount of $405.0 million and fair value of ($14.5) million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2003. the significant increase in outstanding contracts from 2003 to 2004 is primarily attributed to the projected increase in revenues over the forecast periods. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale investment securities and our fixed-rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to the investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group, investment type 43 and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our fixed-rate interest-bearing assets and fixed-rate liabilities at december 31, 2004 (dollars in thousands). years ending december 31, fair value december 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 thereafter total 2004 assets available-for-sale securities $ 725,991 $ 318,512 $ 66,335 $ 1,110,838 $ 1,110,838 average interest rate 2.04 % 2.76 % 2.51 % liabilities long-term obligations, including current portion(1) $ 14,559 $ 13,536 $ 12,813 $ 12,211 $ 7,851 $ 24,700 $ 85,670 $ 85,670 average interest rate 12.8 % 13.4 % 10.6 % (1) long-term obligations consist of capital leases and operating leases (net of noncancelable subleases). the interest portion of payments due is included. international credit risk our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2004 was $371.2 million compared to $235.2 million at december 31, 2003 and $125.0 million at december 31, 2002. the growth in our accounts receivable balances was primarily due to higher product sales for viread in the united states and europe. in certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily greece, italy, portugal and spain, our accounts receivable balances are significant. in most cases, these slow payment practices reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. this, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. sales to customers in countries that tend to be relatively slow paying have in the past increased, and in the future may further increase, the average length of time that accounts receivable are outstanding. at december 31, 2004, our past due accounts receivable for greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled approximately $166.6 million, of which approximately $100.5 million was more than 120 days past due. to date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable and we believe that substantially all our accounts receivable balances are collectible. we perform credit evaluations of our customer financial condition and generally have not required collateral.risk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider any of the above risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. substantially all of our revenues are derived from sales of a limited number of products. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of our hiv products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our hiv products, especially viread and truvada, to support our existing operations. our hiv products are exclusively of the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we are unable to continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development efforts. hiv product sales for the year ended december 31, 2005 were $1.39 billion, or 69% of our total revenues, and sales of viread and truvada comprised 56% and 41%, respectively, of total hiv product sales in 2005. we may not be able to continue the growth rate of sales of our hiv products for the reasons stated in this risk factor section and, in particular, for the following reasons: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as a product matures, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing may be affected. if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues and our stock price may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products or increase revenues from our existing products, we will not be able to increase our total revenues. if we fail to increase our sales of our hiv products, we may not be able to increase revenues and expand our research and development efforts. we may face difficulties in our collaboration efforts with bms to commercialize a once-a-day single pill combination of truvada and sustiva. for example, regulatory approval for the nda that we expect to file with the fda in the second quarter of 2006 may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. we face significant competition. we face significant competition from businesses that have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from gsk, which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with truvada. for ambisome, we are encountering significant competition from new products produced by merck and pfizer. in addition, we are aware of reports of at least three lipid 19 table of contents formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the anticipated entry of one such formulation in greece in 2006. for hepsera, we have encountered increased competition with the launch of bms baraclude (entecavir) and there is the potential for future competition from telbivudine, developed by novartis and idenix, which is awaiting approval in the united states and europe. these companies may significantly impede our ability to be successful with our antiviral products and ambisome. if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products, our sales may decline, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data that support the marketing approvals for our products and that form the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from limited post-approval use. safety and efficacy studies of viread and emtriva, dosed as separate products, are ongoing and have been underway for a longer period of time than the safety and efficacy studies of truvada (viread and emtriva together), which are also underway. following approval, our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients taking numerous other medicines, many of whom have underlying health problems and would not be monitored for dosing compliance. as drugs are used over longer periods of time by more patients, we have found and expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. if serious safety, resistance or interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products that we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for viread, truvada, emtriva, ambisome and hepsera for currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. in addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive continued regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. we depend on contract research organizations and our results of clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. gilead extensively outsources its clinical trial activities and usually performs only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on third party contract research organizations (cros) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training and program management. if there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. in addition, we are required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of products we develop in each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our 20 table of contents products under development fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials or if safety issues arise, commercialization of that drug candidate could be delayed or halted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn reduce our revenues. manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis. if these third parties fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval, and these events could harm our competitive position. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated, and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. we and our manufacturers are subject to the fda current good manufacturing practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record-keeping and quality standards and similar regulations are in effect in other countries. in addition, our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. we depend on third party manufacturers to manufacture viread, truvada, emtriva, hepsera and vistide, including the truvada and viread made available to physicians and treatment programs at cost in developing countries under our access program. we rely on these third parties for the manufacture of both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and final drug product for clinical and commercial purposes. in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. these third-party manufacturers may develop problems over which we have no control and these problems may adversely affect our business. we manufacture ambisome and macugen at our facilities in san dimas, california. these are our only formulation and manufacturing facilities in the united states. we own a manufacturing facility in ireland that conducts quality control testing, labeling and packaging. in addition, we use third parties as alternate contract suppliers to fill and freeze dry certain batches of product. in the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and would be unable to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs. we may not be able to obtain materials necessary to manufacture our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. many of the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we depend on single suppliers for high quality amphotericin b, distearoylphosphatidylcholine and high quality cholesterol, each of which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. because the suppliers of key components and materials must be named in the nda filed with the fda for a product, significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship viread, ambisome, hepsera, emtriva, truvada or vistide, or to supply any of our products in development for clinical trials. we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these other companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance. these include collaborations with astellas and sumitomo for ambisome, gsk for hepsera, roche for tamiflu, pfizer for vistide, osi and pfizer for macugen and japan tobacco for viread, truvada and emtriva and our joint venture with bms to develop and commercialize a fixed-dose regimen of truvada and sustiva. in many countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of viread, 21 table of contents truvada, emtriva, ambisome and hepsera outside the united states. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including: we are not able to control whether our corporate partners devote sufficient resources to our programs or products; disputes may arise in the future with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with corporate partners; disagreements with corporate partners could lead to delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and our distributors and corporate partners may be unable to pay us. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenue from existing products could decline. under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and the republic of korea. the success of hepsera in these territories will depend almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera in its territories, our potential revenues from sales of hepsera may be substantially reduced. expenses associated with clinical trials and sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are extremely expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. in addition, during the year ended december 31, 2005, approximately 89% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, amerisourcebergen corp., cardinal health, inc. and mckesson corp. inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to wholesalers do not match end user demand. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements may not be completely effective in matching inventory levels to end user demand, as they make estimates to determine end user demand. approximately half of our product sales occurs outside the united states, and currency fluctuations may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in the past have reduced, and in the future may 22 table of contents reduce, our u.s. dollar equivalent sales and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro currency. we also hedge a portion of our accounts receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a sale is recorded and the date that cash is collected. our hedging program only hedges a portion of our total exposure and significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time could still adversely affect our results of operations. we face credit risks from our european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. our accounts receivable from government owned or supported customers in these countries totaled $221.9 million as of december 31, 2005. historically, receivables tended to accumulate over a period of time and were settled as large lump sum payments as government funding became available. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of european governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. our plan to supply viread and truvada to certain developing countries under our access program may expose us to unforeseen liabilities and risks. we have launched our access program pursuant to which we will supply viread and truvada at our cost to all 97 developing countries. the supply and distribution of drugs in a resource-poor environment is a complicated undertaking. as this program develops, we could face unforeseen challenges and risks, which could give rise to unforeseen liabilities. for example, patients in less developed countries using viread and truvada may not be as closely supervised by a doctor as they would be in more developed nations. accordingly, there may be an increased likelihood of viread- or truvada-related complications going undetected or untreated, which could result in significant liability to gilead. our product revenues could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly viread and truvada, which we have agreed to provide at our cost under our access program, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, in the european union, we are required to permit cross border sales. this allows buyers in countries where government-approved prices for our products are relatively high to purchase our products legally from countries where they must be sold at lower prices. additionally, some u.s. consumers have been able to purchase products, including hiv products, from internet pharmacies in other countries at substantial discounts. such cross border sales could adversely affect our revenues. in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at a low cost. alternatively, governments in those countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to 23 table of contents manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they are considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. we are currently engaged in discussions with the brazilian government regarding the affordability of our hiv products. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu as fear grows about a potential avian flu pandemic have generated international discussions over potential compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. furthermore, roche may issue voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche has granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override gilead tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties received from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payor reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. government authorities and third-party payors increasingly are challenging the price of medical products and services, particularly for innovative new products and therapies. this has resulted in lower average sales prices. for example, a majority of our sales of ambisome and vistide, and a majority of our sales of truvada, viread and hepsera, are subject to reimbursement by government agencies, resulting in significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. our business may be adversely affected by an increase in u.s. or international pricing pressures. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. in europe, the success of viread, truvada, emtriva, hepsera, ambisome and tamiflu will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because in many european countries, including the united kingdom and france, patients will not use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. we also expect that the success of our products in development, particularly in europe, will depend on the ability to obtain reimbursement. even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. for example, in europe as in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. as new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across much of europe. we believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. as a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth. our results of operations could be adversely affected by future health care reforms. in both the united states and some foreign jurisdictions, there have been a number of legislative and regulatory changes to the healthcare system that could impact the pricing of our products. in the united states, in december 2003, president bush signed into law new medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. part of the legislation authorizes the centers for medicare &amp; medicaid services, or cms, the agency within the department of health and human services that administers medicare, to implement a new medicare part d coverage benefit 24 table of contents for prescription drugs. the prescription drug program began on january 1, 2006. many factors influence the possible impact to gilead. not all drugs in a class may be covered. further, payment levels under the new medicare program may be lower than the previous medicare payment. medicare patients will have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. program enrollment is mandatory for those who are dually eligible for both medicaid and medicare. there is no assurance that our drugs will be recognized under the new medicare part d program for outpatient prescription drugs or paid at levels that reflect current or historical levels. further, federal medicare proposals, along with state medicaid drug payment changes and healthcare reforms could also lower payment for our products. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging in 2006, 2007 and beyond from the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. to the extent that private insurers such as blue cross and blue shield or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower medicare payment may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment. additionally, some states have enacted health care reform legislation. further federal and state developments are possible. the impact of proposed legislation and other reforms is unclear, but it may result in pricing and reimbursement restrictions, which could adversely impact our revenues. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology. there is a risk, however, that issued patents will not be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will not result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for at least some period of time until a patent issues. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hbv, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. in addition, certain countries in africa and asia, including china do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. our competitors may file patent applications covering our technology. if so, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are expensive even if we are ultimately successful. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda has determined that the products would be granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly 25 table of contents for use in making our products. it is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application, which is the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. if our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain such licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. in addition, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as products in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. although we maintain product liability insurance, a successful product liability claim against us may not be covered by our insurance or could require us to pay amounts beyond that provided by our insurance, either of which could impair our financial condition and our ability to clinically test and to market our products. expensive litigation may reduce our earnings. we are named as a defendant in lawsuits regarding the use of average wholesale price and reimbursement rates under medicaid. we have also been named as a defendant in a lawsuit alleging violations of the federal securities laws. adverse results from these lawsuits could result in material damages that could significantly reduce our earnings or cash flows. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our effective income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, our adoption of the statement of financial accounting standards no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment (sfas 123r) relating to the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, changes in tax laws and rates, future levels of research and development spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate and changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our results of operations. recently adopted changes in accounting for stock options will significantly reduce our earnings. the financial accounting standards board (fasb) recently issued sfas 123r, under which we will be required to record additional compensation expense related to stock options and other equity incentives in 2006 and beyond. the impact on our earnings resulting from this new standard will have a significant negative impact on our reported results of operations compared to the results we have reported under prior accounting standards on stock options and other share-based payments. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and australia. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which are the euro, the british pound and the australian dollar. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on cash flows from our sales denominated in foreign currency, as well as foreign currency-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies in the past have reduced, and in the future may reduce, our u.s. dollar return on these sales and negatively impact our financial condition. we use forward contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro currency. in recent years, foreign currency exchange fluctuations have both positively and negatively impacted product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the foreign currency fluctuations have been moderated by our hedge program. the following table summarizes the notional amounts, average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2005. all contracts have maturities of one year or less. average rates are stated in terms of the amount of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2005 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars in thousands): currency notional amount average rate fair value british pound $ 65,028 0.5652 $ 1,366 euro 656,841 0.8251 9,969 australian dollar 10,158 1.3791 (2 ) total $ 732,027 $ 11,333 the total notional amount of $732.0 million and fair value of $11.3 million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2005 compares with a total notional amount of $580.7 million and fair value of ($28.0) million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2004. the significant increase in the notional amount of outstanding contracts from 2004 to 2005 is primarily attributed to the projected increase in product sales over the forecasted periods. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale investment securities and our variable-rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to the investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; 47 table of contents liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2005 (dollars in thousands): years ending december 31, total fair value at december 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 thereafter assets available-for-sale securities $ 1,179,925 $ 377,123 $ 259,111 $ 90,838 $ 235,903 $ 2,142,900 average interest rate 3.8 % 3.9 % 4.0 % 3.9 % 4.3 % liabilities long-term debt, including current portion (1) $ 60,000 $ 60,000 $ 60,000 $ 60,000 $ 60,000 $ 300,000 average interest rate 5.1 % 5.0 % 5.0 % 5.1 % 5.2 % other long-term obligations, including current portion (2) $ 17,594 $ 16,813 $ 14,890 $ 11,348 $ 8,575 $ 30,791 $ 100,011 average interest rate 12.5 % 9.5 % 8.0 % (1) long-term debt consists of the $300.0 million, 5-year term loan that we entered into in the fourth quarter of 2005. the average interest rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield curve at the reporting date. under the terms of the loan, the minimum principal amount to be repaid at the end of each calendar quarter, beginning march 31, 2006, is $15.0 million. interest is accrued at a rate of libor plus a tiered contractual rate of up to 62.5 basis points. we can prepay the term loan at any time in whole or in part, together with accrued interest on the prepaid principal, without penalty or premium. any outstanding interest or principal at december 2010 is payable on demand. (2) other long-term obligations consist of capital leases and operating leases (net of noncancelable subleases). the interest portion of payments due is included. international credit risk our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2005 was $396.1 million compared to $371.2 million at december 31, 2004. the growth in our accounts receivable balances was primarily due to higher product sales for viread and truvada in the united states and europe. in certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily greece, italy, portugal and spain, our accounts receivable balances are significant. in most cases, these slow payment practices reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. this, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. sales to customers in countries that tend to be relatively slow paying have in the past increased, and in the future may further increase, the average length of time that accounts receivable are outstanding. at december 31, 2005, our past due accounts receivable for greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled $156.9 million, of which $81.0 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual terms of the receivables. to date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable and we believe that substantially all of our accounts receivable balances are collectible. we perform credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally have not required collateral.risk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider any of the above risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. substantially all of our revenues are derived from sales of a limited number of products. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of our hiv products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our hiv products, especially truvada and viread, to support our existing operations. our hiv products are exclusively of the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we are unable to continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development efforts. hiv product sales for the year ended december 31, 2006 were $2.13 billion, or approximately 70% of our total revenues, and sales of truvada and viread accounted for 56% and 32%, respectively, of our total hiv product sales in 2006. we may not be able to continue the growth rate of sales of our hiv products for the reasons stated in this risk factor section and, in particular, for the following reasons: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as a product matures, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing may be affected. 23 table of contents if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues and our stock price may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products or increase revenues from our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues. each new product commercialization effort will face the risks outlined in this section. if we fail to increase our sales of our products or bring new products to market, we may not be able to increase revenues and expand our research and development efforts. although our joint venture with bms launched the single tablet regimen of truvada and sustiva, trade-named atripla, in july 2006 in the united states, physicians may be reluctant to prescribe atripla if they fail to see advantages of the single tablet regimen over other antiretrovirals and as a result, we may not be able to increase revenues from our hiv products. in addition, product sales of atripla may increase at the expense of product sales of its component products and our overall total revenues may not increase from the launch of atripla. furthermore, the marketing authorization application submitted by bms, merck and us in october 2006 seeking approval of atripla in the european union may not be granted on a timely basis, or at all. we face significant competition. we face significant competition from businesses that have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from gsk, which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with truvada and atripla. for ambisome, we are encountering significant competition from new products produced by merck and pfizer. in addition, we are aware of reports of at least three lipid formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the anticipated entry of one such formulation in greece. these formulations may reduce market demand for ambisome. furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin b is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of ambisome may be negatively impacted by association. for hepsera, we have encountered increased competition with the launch of bms baraclude (entecavir) and the launch of novartis/idenix tyzeka (telbivudine) in the united states. these companies have substantially greater resources than we do and may significantly impede our ability to be successful with our antiviral products and ambisome. in addition, we are developing aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of bacterial infections in patients with cf and ambrisentan for the treatment of pah. if approved, aztreonam lysine would compete with tobi (tobramycin for inhalation), marketed by novartis, and ambrisentan would compete directly with actelion ltd. tracleer (bosentan), and indirectly with pah products from united therapeutics corporation and pfizer. if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data that support the marketing approvals for our products and that form the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from limited post-approval use. as our products, including truvada, viread, atripla, emtriva, ambisome and hepsera, are used over longer periods of time by many patients taking numerous other medicines, many of whom have underlying health problems, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. safety and efficacy studies of viread and emtriva, dosed as separate products, are ongoing and have been underway for a longer period of time than the safety and efficacy studies of truvada (viread and emtriva together), which are also underway. we are also conducting similar studies of atripla (viread, emtriva and sustiva together). if serious safety, resistance or interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities. in addition, following our acquisition of myogen, we are developing new product candidates (darusentan and ambrisentan) that have a different safety profile than our current marketed products. as these new product 24 table of contents candidates are developed, they may prove to be more susceptible to safety, resistance or drug interaction issues than we have experienced in the past. if safety issues arise with these product candidates, our clinical development programs may be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and the product candidates may never become marketable products. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products that we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for truvada, viread, atripla, emtriva, ambisome and hepsera for currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. in addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive continued regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. the results of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. we are required to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of products we develop in each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our products under development fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials or if safety issues arise, commercialization of that drug candidate could be delayed or halted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn reduce our revenues. due to our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (cros), over which we do not have control, to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. if there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party cros. if any of our cros processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. in february 2007, we were advised by the fda that it discovered certain irregularities during its inspection of bioanalytical analyses conducted for various organizations by one of our third-party cros. during the period under review, the cro performed bioanalytical analyses in studies for certain of our products. we do not know whether the investigation involves or will impact any of our clinical data results or related regulatory approvals. 25 table of contents we may not be able to successfully integrate our existing business with the businesses of corus pharma, inc., raylo chemicals inc., and myogen, inc. integrating these businesses with our existing business will be a complex and time-consuming process. until recently, corus, raylo and myogen operated independently of us, each with its own business, corporate culture, locations, employees and systems. as a result of these acquisitions, we have to operate our existing business, along with the businesses of corus, raylo and myogen, as one combined organization utilizing common information and communication systems, operating procedures, financial controls and human resources practices, including benefits, training and professional development programs. there may be substantial difficulties, costs and delays involved in the integration of these companies with us and the integration with us of any other company or assets that we may from time to time acquire. the failure to successfully integrate these companies with us, or any other assets or companies we may acquire, may have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. the remaining efforts for completion of corus and myogen research and development projects primarily consist of clinical trials, the cost, length and success of which are extremely difficult to predict, and obtaining necessary regulatory approvals. numerous risks and uncertainties exist that could prevent completion of development, including the ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, and the risk of failing to obtain fda and other regulatory body approvals. feedback from regulatory authorities or results from clinical trials might require modifications or delays in later stage clinical trials or additional trials to be performed. we cannot be certain that aztreonam lysine for cf, purchased from corus, or ambrisentan for pah, purchased from myogen, which is pending fda review, will be approved in the united states or in countries outside of the united states or whether marketing approvals will have significant limitations on its use. future discussions with regulatory agencies will determine the amount of data needed and timelines for review, which may differ materially from current projections. the acquired product candidates under development may never be successfully commercialized. as a result, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of these product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. if either of these programs cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for truvada, viread, atripla, emtriva, hepsera and vistide. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated, and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. we and our manufacturers are subject to the fda current good manufacturing practices, which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record-keeping and quality standards and similar regulations are in effect in other countries. our manufacturing operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. additionally, our third-party manufacturers are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. to the extent that these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, it may adversely affect our financial results. we also depend on these third-party manufacturers to manufacture truvada, viread and atripla made available to physicians and treatment programs at no-profit prices in developing countries under our gilead access program. we rely on these third parties for the manufacture of both the active pharmaceutical ingredient and final drug product for clinical and commercial purposes. in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. if any of these third-party manufacturers fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause 26 table of contents delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. these events could harm our competitive position and financial results. we may not be able to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs in the event of business interruptions at our san dimas facility. we manufacture ambisome and fill and finish macugen at our facilities in san dimas, california, which are our only formulation and manufacturing facilities in the united states. in the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs. our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize aztreonam lysine, if approved, will depend upon our ability to continue to manufacture in a multi-product facility. aztreonam lysine is a mono-lactam gram-negative antibiotic that we currently plan to manufacture, by ourselves or through third parties, in a multi-product manufacturing facility. historically, the fda has permitted the manufacture of mono-lactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities, however, there can be no assurances that the fda will continue to allow this practice. we do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of aztreonam lysine nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for aztreonam lysine. if the fda prohibits the manufacture of mono-lactam antibiotics, like aztreonam lysine, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of aztreonam lysine and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product, if approved. we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to manufacture or sell our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. some of the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. because the suppliers of key components and materials must be named in the nda filed with the fda for a product, significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship truvada, viread, atripla, emtriva, hepsera, ambisome or vistide, or to supply any of our products in development for clinical trials. in addition, the aztreonam lysine for inhalation that we are developing is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier. we are currently working with the supplier to prepare for the commercial launch of aztreonam lysine for inhalation, if and when regulatory approval is obtained. if sufficient quantities of this device are not available at the time of a commercial launch or following such a launch or if we encounter problems in our relationship with the supplier, the commercial launch of aztreonam lysine for inhalation could be delayed, and the anticipated contribution of aztreonam lysine to our financial results could be adversely effected. 27 table of contents we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these other companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. these include collaborations with astellas (created through the merger of yamanouchi pharmaceutical co. ltd. and fujisawa pharmaceutical co., ltd.) and sumitomo for ambisome, gsk for hepsera, roche for tamiflu, pfizer for vistide, osi and pfizer for macugen, japan tobacco for viread, truvada and emtriva and our joint venture with bms for atripla. in many countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of truvada, viread, emtriva, ambisome and hepsera. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including: the risk that we are not able to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products; disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with corporate partners; disagreements with corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and our distributors and corporate partners may be unable to pay us. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenue from existing products could decline. under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and the republic of korea. the success of hepsera in these territories will depend almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv/zeffix. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera in its territories, our potential revenues from sales of hepsera from these territories may be substantially reduced. expenses associated with clinical trials and sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. 28 table of contents we estimate the future demand for our product, consider the shelf life of our inventory and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. if actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for example, as a result of our review of inventory realizability, during the first and fourth quarters of 2006, we recorded write-downs of a portion of our gilead access program inventory. additional write downs of inventory for our gilead access program may be necessary if demand for our hiv products in the access program countries is not sufficient to consume existing inventories. during the year ended december 31, 2006, approximately 87% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, amerisourcebergen corp., cardinal health, inc. and mckesson corp. inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to wholesalers do not match end user demand. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements may not be completely effective in matching inventory levels to end user demand, as they make estimates to determine end user demand. the non-retail sector in the united states, which includes government institutions, correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, which currently contributes to approximately 30% of our hiv business, tends to be less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often results in quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror the growth patterns that can be seen in the retail prescription data. the unpredictable variability of roche tamiflu sales and the strong relationship between this revenue and global pandemic planning also cause our royalty revenues to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. we have a number of patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to the compounds in our products, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. patent applications are confidential for at least some period of time until a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are expensive even if we are ultimately successful. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda has determined that the products would be granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of our products will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. it is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application, which is the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. if our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain such licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. 29 table of contents in addition, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. approximately half of our product sales occur outside the united states, and currency fluctuations may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar against foreign currencies in the past have reduced, and in the future may reduce, our u.s. dollar equivalent sales and negatively impact our financial condition and results of operations. we use foreign currency forward contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro currency. we also hedge a portion of our accounts receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a sale is recorded and the date that cash is collected. our hedging program only hedges a portion of our total exposure and significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time could adversely affect our results of operations. we face credit risks from our european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. our accounts receivable from government-owned or supported customers in these countries totaled $330.5 million as of december 31, 2006. historically, receivables tended to accumulate over a period of time and were settled as large lump sum payments as government funding became available. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these european governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. our product revenues could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly truvada and viread, which we have agreed to make available at no-profit prices to 97 countries participating in our gilead access program, or atripla, which merck will distribute at low cost to hiv-infected patients in developing countries under our august 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, we have granted non-exclusive, voluntary licenses for the manufacture of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 11 generic manufacturers in india for the local indian market and for manufacturers to export product to 95 of the developing world countries included in our gilead access program. if generic versions of viread under these licenses are then re-exported to the united states, europe or other markets outside of india or the 97 developing world countries participating in our gilead access program, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, in the european union, we are required to permit cross-border sales. this allows buyers in countries where government-approved prices for our products are relatively high to purchase our products legally from countries where they are sold at lower prices. purchases of our products in countries where our sales prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our sales prices are relatively high may adversely impact our gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. during the fourth quarter of 2006, we have seen increased instances of such cross-border sales in europe. additionally, some u.s. consumers have been able to purchase products, including hiv products, from internet pharmacies in other countries at substantial discounts. such cross-border sales could adversely affect our revenues. 30 table of contents in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at a low cost. alternatively, governments in those countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. for example, in the past, certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. as a result of discussions with the brazilian government, we reached agreement with the brazilian health ministry in may 2006 to reduce the price of viread in brazil by approximately 50%. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu as fear grows about a potential avian flu pandemic have generated international discussions over potential compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. for example, we are aware that the canadian government is considering measures that would allow canadian manufacturers to manufacture and sell the active ingredient in tamiflu in canada and certain other countries. furthermore, roche may issue voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche has granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payor reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. government authorities and third-party payors increasingly are challenging the price of medical products and services, particularly for innovative new products and therapies. this has resulted in lower average sales prices. for example, a majority of our sales of ambisome and vistide, and a majority of our sales of truvada, viread, atripla and hepsera, are subject to reimbursement by government agencies, resulting in significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. our business may be adversely affected by an increase in u.s. or international pricing pressures. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. in europe, the success of truvada, viread, emtriva, hepsera, ambisome and tamiflu, as well as atripla, if and when approved in the european union, will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement because in many european countries, patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. we also expect that the success of our products in development, particularly in europe, will depend on the ability to obtain reimbursement. even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. for example, in europe as in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. as new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across much of europe. we believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care 31 table of contents spending. as a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth. our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future health care reforms. legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. recently, there have been significant changes to the federal medicare system in the united states that could impact the pricing of our products. under the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under medicare part d, and the various entities providing such coverage will attempt to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers, which may increase pressure to lower prescription drug prices and may limit drug access. the prescription drug program began on january 1, 2006 and although we have benefited initially from patients transitioning from medicaid to medicare part d in 2006, the longer term impact of this new law on our business is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. further, medicare patients will have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. these changes in medicare reimbursement could have a negative effect on revenues. federal medicare proposals, along with state medicaid drug payment changes and healthcare reforms could also lower payment for our products. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. in addition, to the extent that private insurers such as blue cross and blue shield or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects of lower medicare payment may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. additionally, some states have enacted health care reform legislation. further federal and state developments are possible. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology. there is a risk, however, that issued patents will not be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will not result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for at least some period of time until a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hbv, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. flolan patent and market exclusivity protection has expired. as a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch, or attempt to launch, a generic version of flolan in the united states in 2007 or thereafter. we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related 32 table of contents product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. in addition, certain countries in africa and asia, including china do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. our competitors may file patent applications covering our technology. if so, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are expensive even if we are ultimately successful. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda has determined that the products would be granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. it is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated nda, which is the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. if our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain such licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. in addition, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as products in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. our product liability insurance may not cover a successful product liability claim against us and we could be required to pay amounts beyond that provided by our insurance, either of which could impair our financial condition and our ability to clinically test and to market our products. our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially impact our business. we continually evaluate our levels of self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. however, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses. expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings. we are named as a defendant in lawsuits regarding the use of average wholesale price and reimbursement rates under medicaid. in addition, the plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal of a class action lawsuit brought against us alleging violations of federal securities laws. in november 2006, we received a subpoena from the 33 table of contents united states attorney office in san francisco requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for truvada, viread and emtriva. we are complying with the u.s. attorney subpoena and intend to cooperate with any related government investigation. the outcome of these lawsuits, any other lawsuits brought against us, the investigation, or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, our adoption of statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 123 (revised 2004), share-based payment (sfas 123r) relating to the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, changes in tax laws and rates, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of research and development (r&amp;d) spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal and state income tax audits. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income or loss. changes in accounting for stock options has significantly reduced and will continue to significantly reduce our earnings. we are subject to sfas 123r, under which we have been required to record additional compensation expense related to stock options and other share-based payments since january 1, 2006. this standard has had and will continue to have a significant negative impact on our reported results of operations compared to the results we reported prior to 2006 under prior accounting standards on stock options and other share-based payments. if we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. we face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. if we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states, canada and ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and australia. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which are the euro, the british pound and the australian dollar. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts to mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on cash flows from our sales denominated in foreign currency, as well as foreign currency-denominated net monetary assets and liabilities. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. increases in the value of the u.s. dollar against these foreign currencies in the past have reduced, and may in the future reduce our u.s. dollar return on these sales and negatively impact our financial condition. we use forward contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro currency. in recent years, foreign currency exchange fluctuations have both positively and negatively impacted product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the foreign currency fluctuations have been moderated by our hedge program. the following table summarizes the notional amounts, average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2006. all contracts have maturities of one year or less. average rates are stated in terms of the amount of foreign currency per u.s. dollar. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2006 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars in thousands): currency notional amount average rate fair value british pound $ 95,153 0.5181 $ (1,189 ) euro 980,017 0.7692 (5,902 ) australian dollar 40,563 1.2821 (54 ) total $ 1,115,733 $ (7,145 ) the total notional amount of $1.12 billion and total fair value of our liability of $7.1 million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2006 compares with a total notional amount of $732.0 million and a total fair value relating to our asset of $11.3 million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2005. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable-rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. 61 table of contents the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2006 (dollars in thousands): years ending december 31, thereafter total fair value at december 31, 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 assets available-for-sale debt securities $ 511,696 $ 120,725 $ 122,289 $ 101,912 $ 56,933 $ $ 913,555 average interest rate 4.9% 4.9% 4.8% 4.6% 4.8% liabilities convertible senior notes (1) $ $ $ $ $ 650,000 $ 650,000 $ 1,300,000 average interest rate 0.5% 0.6% term loan, including current portion (2) $ 18,364 $ 14,957 $ 12,183 $ 53,496 $ $ $ 99,000 average interest rate 5.8% 5.5% 5.5% 5.6% capital lease obligations, including current portion $ 383 $ 220 $ 76 $ 7 $ $ $ 686 average interest rate 8.1% 8.1% 8.2% 9.0% (1) in april 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2011 (2011 notes) and $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2013 (2013 notes) in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the 2011 notes and 2013 notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625%, respectively, and may be converted subject to certain circumstances. (2) in december 2005, we entered into a $300.0 million, five-year term loan. the average interest rates are based on implied three-month libor forward rates in the yield curve at december 31, 2006. we have an option to choose borrowing maturity based on a one, two, three or six-month libor. under the terms of the loan, the minimum principal amount to be repaid at the end of each calendar quarter, beginning march 31, 2006, is five percent of the outstanding amount. interest is accrued at a rate of libor plus a tiered contractual rate of up to 62.5 basis points. we can prepay the term loan at any time in whole or in part, together with accrued interest on the prepaid principal, without penalty or premium. during the year ended december 31, 2006, $201.0 million of the term loan principal was repaid. any outstanding interest or principal at december 2010 is payable on demand. international credit risk our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2006 was $609.3 million, compared to $396.1 million at december 31, 2005. the growth in our accounts receivable balances was primarily due to higher product sales of our hiv products in the united states and europe. in certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily greece, italy, portugal and spain, our aggregated accounts receivable balance was significant. in most cases, these slow payment practices reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. this, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. sales to customers in countries that tend to be relatively slow-paying have in the past increased, and in the future may further increase, the average length of time that accounts receivable are outstanding. at december 31, 2006, our past due accounts receivable for greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled $234.3 million, of which $124.5 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual terms of the receivables. to date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable, and we believe that substantially all of our accounts receivable balances are collectible. we perform credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally have not required collateral. 62 table of contentsrisk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of a limited number of products. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of our hiv products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus (hiv) infection, especially truvada and atripla, to support our existing operations. our hiv products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (r&amp;d) efforts. hiv product sales for the year ended december 31, 2007 were $3.14 billion, or 74% of our total revenues, and sales of truvada and atripla accounted for 51% and 29%, respectively, of our total hiv product sales during the year ended december 31, 2007. we may not be able to continue the growth rate of sales of our hiv products for the reasons stated in this risk factor section and, in particular, for the following reasons: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as our hiv products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing may be affected. a substantial portion of our pre-tax income is derived from royalty revenue recognized from sales of tamiflu by roche. as sales of tamiflu decrease, our pre-tax income will be disproportionately affected. f. hoffmann-la roche, ltd (together with hoffmann-la roche inc., roche) markets tamiflu worldwide for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. we recognized $414.5 million in royalty revenue during the year ended december 31, 2007 related to royalties 25 table of contents received from fourth quarter 2006 and first three quarters of 2007 sales of tamiflu by roche. although such royalty revenue represented less than 10% of our total revenues in 2007, it represented 18% of our pre-tax income during the period. roche tamiflu sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. sales of tamiflu declined sharply in the second half of 2007 due to the fulfillment of most of the existing pandemic stockpiling orders from governments and corporations. roche recently reported that it expects a significant decrease in tamiflu sales in 2008. as sales of tamiflu decrease, our royalty revenue will decrease and our pre-tax income will decrease disproportionately. any such decrease could be material. if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues and our stock price may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products or increase revenues from our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues. each new product commercialization effort, including letairis for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (pah), which we launched in the united states in june 2007, will face the risks outlined in this section. if we fail to increase sales of our products or bring new products to market, we may not be able to increase revenues and expand our r&amp;d efforts. for example, the new drug application (nda) submitted by us in november 2007 for aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (cf) or the marketing authorization applications submitted by us in october 2007 for viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in the united states and the european union may not be granted under the timelines currently anticipated, or at all. further, in december 2007, the committee for medicinal product for human use of the european medicines agency (emea) granted marketing authorization for atripla in the european union for the treatment of hiv-1 infection in adults with virologic suppression to hiv-1 rna levels of less than 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more than three months. patients must not have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harbored virus strains with mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in atripla. this restriction of atripla use in the european union will prevent us from promoting atripla for use in patients who have not previously achieved this reduction in viral load through the use of antiretroviral therapy, including newly diagnosed patients. if we seek to expand the indication for atripla in the european union, the emea may require us to perform additional clinical trials, which we may be unable to complete. if we are unable to expand the indication for atripla to include a broader population of patients, the impact to future sales of atripla in the european union is unknown but could be more limited than in other markets, including the united states, where we have no such restrictions. in addition, sales of atripla may increase at the expense of product sales of its component products and our overall total revenues may not increase as atripla sales increase. we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel hiv integrase inhibitor also known as gs 9137, and darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension, both currently in phase 3 clinical trials, that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. these risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain united states food and drug administration (fda) and other regulatory body approvals. as a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. if these programs and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. 26 table of contents we face significant competition. we face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from glaxosmithkline inc. (gsk), which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with truvada and atripla. for hepsera, we have encountered increased competition with baraclude (entecavir) from bristol-myers squibb company (bms) and tyzeka/sebivo (telbivudine) from novartis pharmaceuticals corporation (novartis) in the united states, the european union and china. for ambisome, we compete primarily with products produced by merck &amp; co., inc. (merck) and pfizer, inc. (pfizer). in addition, we are aware of at least three lipid formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the possible entry of one such formulation in greece. these formulations may reduce market demand for ambisome. furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin b is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of ambisome may be negatively impacted by association. letairis competes directly with actelion pharmaceuticals us, inc. tracleer (bosentan) and indirectly with pah products from united therapeutics corporation and pfizer. aztreonam lysine for inhalation for the treatment of cf, if approved for marketing, will compete with tobi (tobramycin for inhalation) marketed by novartis. viread for the treatment of the hepatitis b virus, if approved for marketing, will compete with hepsera, our current product for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b, hepsera, as well as baraclude (entecavir), and tyzeka/sebivo (telbivudine). if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from limited post-approval use. as our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients taking numerous other medicines, many of whom have underlying health problems, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. safety and efficacy studies of viread and emtriva, dosed as separate products, are ongoing and have been underway for a longer period of time than the safety and efficacy studies of truvada (viread and emtriva together), which are also underway. we are also conducting similar studies of atripla (truvada and sustiva together). in addition, our product letairis, which was approved by the fda in june 2007, is a member of a new class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. because of these risks, letairis is available only through the letairis education and access program (leap), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. as the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of letairis which may decrease demand for the product. for example, since the launch of letairis, cases of edema in certain patients taking letairis have been reported. this information has recently been added to the product label, which may negatively impact demand for the product. if serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to achieve continued compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for truvada, atripla, viread, emtriva, hepsera, ambisome and letairis for 27 table of contents currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive marketing approval on a timely basis, or at all. in addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. on september 27, 2007, president bush signed into law the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007 (the fdaaa), which created significant additions to the fda authority. the fdaaa expanded the fda authority, among other things, to: require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product lifecycle, based on new safety information; and require sponsors to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers, or other elements as the fda deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. failure to comply with the new requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the fda, could result in significant civil monetary penalties. the results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. we are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results of our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. for example, we observed a possible qt prolongation, a measure for cardiovascular safety, in our phase 1a/b study of our novel non-nucleoside polymerase inhibitor, also known as gs 9190. as a result, we conducted a pilot qt study in healthy volunteers at the 120 mg and the 40 mg bid doses. qt prolongations were confirmed at the 120 mg dose, but prolongations at the 40 mg dose were small and we believe clinically manageable. we are seeking the fda consent to reinitiate dosing of hcv-infected individuals to further define the efficacy and safety of the compound. this has delayed the development of this compound and if we are unable to obtain the fda consent to reinitiate dosing, this program may be further delayed or we may decide to cease our efforts to commercialize this compound. in addition, we may face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. for example, we are in discussions with the fda and the european medicines evaluation agency concerning the design of the phase 3 clinical studies of elvitegravir, our novel hiv integrase inhibitor also known as gs 9137. if the results from these discussions are not positive, clinical trials of elvitegravir may not be completed on a timely basis or at all and our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. 28 table of contents due to our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (cros), over which we do not have control, to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. if there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party cros. if any of our cros processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. in february 2007, we were advised by the fda that it discovered certain irregularities during its inspection of bioanalytical analyses conducted for various organizations by one of our third-party cros. during the period under review, the cro performed bioanalytical analyses in studies for certain of our products. we do not know whether the investigation involves or will impact any of our clinical data results or related regulatory approvals. manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for truvada, atripla, viread, emtriva, hepsera, letairis and vistide . in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated, and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. we and third-party manufacturers are subject to the fda current good manufacturing practices (gmp), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record-keeping and quality standards and similar regulations are in effect in other countries. our manufacturing operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. additionally, these third-party manufacturers are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. if we or any of these third-party manufacturers fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. to the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected. our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize aztreonam lysine for inhalation, if approved, will depend upon our ability to continue to manufacture in a multi-product facility. aztreonam lysine is a mono-bactam gram-negative antibiotic that we currently plan to manufacture, by ourselves or through third parties, in a multi-product manufacturing facility. historically, the fda has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurances that the fda will continue to allow this practice. we do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for aztreonam lysine for inhalation. if the fda prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam lysine for inhalation, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of aztreonam lysine for inhalation and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product, if approved. we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. we need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials. our inability to obtain any of these materials in a timely manner may delay our development efforts for our product candidates, which could limit our ability to generate revenues. 29 table of contents suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an nda filed with the fda for a product candidate, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. in addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we manufacture ambisome and fill and finish macugen exclusively at our facilities in san dimas, california. in the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure, strike or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs. in addition, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. we also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and for the tableting of letairis. our product candidate, aztreonam lysine for inhalation, which is pending fda approval, is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. we plan on seeking fda approval for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation at our facilities in san dimas, but currently rely on a single third-party supplier for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation. there can be no guarantee that the fda will approve our facility for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation in a timely manner or at all. in addition, we are aware that this third-party supplier has gmp compliance issues, which have resulted in the issuance of approvable letters by the fda to other companies for which this supplier also manufactures. these approvable letters have indicated that the fda is prepared to approve the ndas upon the satisfaction of certain specified conditions, which have included the resolution of the gmp compliance issues by this supplier. if this supplier is unable to resolve these gmp compliance issues, we may also receive an approvable letter that will require the resolution of these compliance issues as a condition to obtaining marketing approval for the product. if the compliance issues are not resolved in a timely manner or if we are not able to obtain fda approval for the manufacture of aztreonam lysine for inhalation at our facilities in san dimas in a timely manner, aztreonam lysine for inhalation may not be approved in the anticipated timeframe, and our anticipated sales of this drug may be negatively impacted. problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts. we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these other companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. these include collaborations with bms for atripla in the united states, europe and canada; japan tobacco inc. for viread, truvada and emtriva in japan; gsk for hepsera outside of the united states; astellas pharma, inc. for ambisome in the united states and canada and dainippon sumitomo pharma co., ltd. for ambisome in japan; pfizer for vistide; roche for tamiflu; and osi pharmaceuticals, inc. and pfizer for macugen. in many countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of truvada, viread, emtriva, hepsera and ambisome. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including: inability to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products; disputes that may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with corporate partners; disagreements with corporate partners that could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners that may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; corporate partners having considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; 30 table of contents corporate partners with marketing rights that may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and distributors and corporate partners that may be unable to pay us. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenue from products could decline. under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and south korea. the success of hepsera in these territories will depend almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv/zeffix. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera in its territories, our potential revenues from sales of hepsera from these territories may be substantially reduced. in addition, letairis is distributed through third-party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. the use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will: not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints; not effectively sell or support letairis; not devote the resources necessary to sell letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or cease operations. we also rely on a third party to administer leap, the restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. this third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for letairis by the fda and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third-party specialty pharmacies. failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the fda or decreased letairis sales, either of which would harm our business. further, we will be dependent on the supplier of the inhalation device that delivers aztreonam lysine for inhalation, if and when regulatory approval is obtained, to distribute the device through specialty pharmacies or other distribution channels, and we will not have control over many key aspects related to the device. for example, the supplier could encounter issues with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device at the time of a commercial launch or following such a launch. any of these issues may cause a delay of the commercial launch of aztreonam lysine for inhalation, and we would not be able to realize the anticipated contribution of aztreonam lysine for inhalation to our financial results. 31 table of contents expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers and parallel importation make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. we estimate the future demand for our products, consider the shelf life of our inventory and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. if actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations. for example, as a result of our review of inventory realizability, during the first and fourth quarters of 2006, we recorded write-downs of a portion of our gilead access program inventory. during the year ended december 31, 2007, approximately 89% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, cardinal health, inc., mckesson corp. and amerisourcebergen corp. inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to wholesalers do not match end user demand. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements may not be completely effective in matching inventory levels to end user demand, as they make estimates to determine end user demand. the non-retail sector in the united states, which includes government institutions, including state aids drug assistance programs, correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, which contributed to approximately 30% of our sales of hiv products in the united states as of december 31, 2007, tends to be less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror the purchasing patterns that can be seen in the retail sector. in the european union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another country. this allows buyers in countries where government-approved prices for our products are relatively high to purchase our products from countries where the prices for our products are relatively low. purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and us and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and be more difficult to forecast. in addition, wholesalers may attempt to arbitrage the pricing differential between countries by purchasing excessive quantities of our products. these activities may result in fluctuating quarterly sales in certain countries which do not reflect the actual demand for our products from customers. such quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price. for example, during 2007, we experienced increased sales of our hiv products in france. we believe a portion of these products was being re-exported to other countries and resold at higher prices. our sales of truvada and viread in france and any countries to or from which sales have been re-exported may continue to fluctuate. if these activities continue in france, other european countries or elsewhere, our results of operations could be adversely affected. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; 32 table of contents preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. if we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. as part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the united states and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for at least some period of time until a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. in addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are expensive even if we are ultimately successful. in addition, from time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. for example, in march 2007, the public patent foundation filed requests for re-examination with the united states patent and trademark office (pto) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in truvada, atripla and viread. the pto granted these requests in july 2007. the pto issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a re-examination proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these office actions. if we are unsuccessful in responding to these office actions, some or all of the original claims in our patents may be narrowed or invalidated. if the pto narrows or invalidates any of our patents, this may cause similar organizations to seek re-examination proceedings challenging our patents in foreign jurisdictions. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis b infection, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. flolan patent and market exclusivity protection has expired. as a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of flolan in the united states. we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda has determined that the products would be granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. it is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated nda, which is the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. if our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. in august 2007, the pto adopted new rules which were scheduled to become effective on november 1, 2007. in october 2007, gsk successfully obtained a preliminary injunction against implementation of these 33 table of contents rules. the rules include limitations on the number of claims that are permitted in a patent application, and the number of continuing patent applications that can be filed. if the rules are implemented, we may be limited in our ability to obtain broad patent coverage for our products and product candidates and this may allow competitors to market products very similar to ours or to obtain patent coverage for closely related products. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. for example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of leap, our restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. we are evaluating these patents and their relevance to leap. in addition, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. a significant portion of our product sales occur outside the united states, and currency fluctuations may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro. we use foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro. we also hedge a portion of our accounts receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a sale is recorded and the date that cash is collected. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. the net foreign currency exchange impact on our 2007 pre-tax earnings, including revenues and expenses generated from outside the united states and the impact of our hedging activities, was a favorable $71.2 million compared to 2006. our hedging program only hedges a portion of our total exposure and significant foreign exchange rate fluctuations within a short period of time could adversely affect our results of operations. we face credit risks from our european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. our accounts receivable from government-owned or supported customers in these countries totaled approximately $436.4 million as of december 31, 2007. historically, receivables accumulated over a period of time and were settled as large lump sum payments as government funding became available. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these european governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. 34 table of contents our product revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly truvada and viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to more than 125 countries participating in our gilead access program, or atripla, which merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to hiv-infected patients in developing countries under our august 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, we have established partnerships with ten indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing world countries, including india. if generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the united states, europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. during the year ended december 31, 2007, we have observed an increase in cross-border sales in the european union, where we are required to permit cross-border sales. further, some u.s. consumers have been able to purchase products, including hiv products, from internet pharmacies in other countries at substantial discounts. such cross-border sales could adversely affect our revenues and gross margin. in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at low cost. alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. for example, in the past, certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. as a result of discussions with the brazilian government, we reached agreement with the brazilian health ministry in may 2006 to reduce the price of viread in brazil by approximately 50%. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. for example, the canadian government may allow canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in tamiflu to eligible developing and least-developed countries under canada access to medicines regime. furthermore, roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche has granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. 35 table of contents our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payor reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. government authorities and third-party payors increasingly are challenging the price of medical products and services, particularly for innovative new products and therapies. this has resulted in lower average sales prices. for example, a majority of our sales of truvada, atripla, viread, hepsera, ambisome, vistide and letairis are subject to reimbursement by government agencies, resulting in significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. our business may be adversely affected by an increase in pricing pressures in the united states and internationally. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. in europe, the success of truvada, atripla, viread, emtriva, hepsera, ambisome and tamiflu will also depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many european countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by twelve months or more. we also expect that the success of our product candidates, particularly in europe, will depend on our ability to obtain reimbursement for these product candidates when commercialized. even if reimbursement is available, reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. for example, in europe as in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. as new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the european countries. we believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. as a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth. our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future health care reforms. legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. there have been significant changes to the federal medicare system in recent years in the united states that could impact the pricing of our products. under the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, medicare beneficiaries are now able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under medicare part d. the prescription drug program began on january 1, 2006 and although we have benefited initially from patients transitioning from medicaid to medicare part d in 2006, the longer term impact of this new law on our business is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. some of the entities providing medicare part d coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. the increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for medicare part d enrollees. further, medicare patients will have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from the medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. in addition to federal medicare proposals, state medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. additionally, health care reform at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect payment for our drugs. at this time, a few states have already enacted health care reform legislation. 36 table of contents we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as products in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. in recent years, coverage and availability of product liability insurance has decreased. the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage, which could impair our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and to market our products. in addition, claims, regardless of their merit may impair our financial condition and future demand for our products. our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially impact our business. we continually evaluate our levels of self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. however, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our results of operations, business, cash flow and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses. expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings. we, along with certain of our officers and a former officer, were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws, which lawsuit has been dismissed by the court. however, the plaintiffs have appealed the dismissal. in november 2006, we received a subpoena from the u.s. attorney office in san francisco requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for truvada, viread and emtriva. we have complied with the u.s. attorney subpoena and intend to cooperate with any related government investigation. the outcome of this lawsuit, any other lawsuits brought against us, the investigation, or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of r&amp;d spending, changes in accounting standards, future levels of capital expenditures, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above-mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income. our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. we are currently under examination by the internal revenue service for the 2003 and 2004 tax years, by the franchise tax board of california for the 2004 and 2005 tax years, and by various other state and foreign jurisdictions. there are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. adverse resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. changes in accounting may affect our financial position and results of operations. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. 37 table of contents for example, on august 31, 2007, the fasb issued for comment a proposed financial accounting standards board (fasb) staff position (fsp) apb 14-a, accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) (fsp apb 14-a). the proposed fsp apb 14-a addresses instruments commonly referred to as instrument c from eitf issue no. 90-19, convertible bonds with issuer option to settle for cash upon conversion , which requires the issuer to settle the principal amount in cash and the conversion spread in cash or net shares at the issuer option. the proposed fsp apb 14-a requires bifurcation of the conversion option from the debt instrument, classification of the conversion option in equity, and then accretion of the resulting discount on the debt to result in additional interest expense being reported in the income statement. in november 2007, after the expiration of the initial comment period, the fasb announced that it would begin its redeliberations of the guidance in the proposed fsp in january 2008. the final guidance has not been issued and we cannot predict its ultimate outcome, including when the final guidance will be effective. we believe that if the fasb determines that we should account for instrument c securities in the manner described above, the accounting for our convertible senior notes would be affected and the change in presentation on our balance sheet and the adverse impact to our results of operations would be material. if we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. we face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. if we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states, canada and ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and australia. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which are the euro, the british pound and the australian dollar. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. we enter into foreign exchange forward contracts and foreign exchange option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on cash flows from our sales denominated in foreign currencies. we also hedge a portion of our accounts receivable balances denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a sale is recorded and the date that cash is collected. in general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. in recent years, foreign currency exchange fluctuations have primarily had a positive impact to product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the foreign currency fluctuations have been moderated by our hedge program. 66 table of contents the following table summarizes the notional amounts, average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign exchange forward and option contracts at december 31, 2007. all contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. average rates are stated in terms of the amount of u.s. dollars per foreign currency. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2007 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars in thousands): foreign exchange forward contracts currency notional amount weighted average settlement price fair value british pound $ 80,435 1.98 $ (78 ) euro 979,683 1.43 (23,263 ) australian dollar 43,555 0.85 (986 ) total $ 1,103,673 $ (24,327 ) foreign exchange option contracts currency notional amount weighted average strike price fair value british pound $ 92,183 2.00 $ 4,124 euro 397,457 1.39 7,585 australian dollar 21,097 0.86 1,116 total $ 510,737 $ 12,825 total foreign exchange forward and option contracts $ 1,614,410 $ (11,502 ) the total notional amount of $1.61 billion and total fair value relating to our liabilities of $11.5 million on our open foreign exchange forward and option contracts at december 31, 2007 compares with a total notional amount of $1.12 billion and a total fair value relating to our liabilities of $7.1 million on our open foreign exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2006. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable-rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. 67 table of contents the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2007 (dollars in thousands): years ending december 31, total fair value at december 31, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 thereafter assets available-for-sale debt securities $ 750,740 $ 407,480 $ 251,277 $ 431,126 $ 143,225 $ - $ 1,983,848 average interest rate 4.5% 4.1% 4.3% 4.1% 3.9% liabilities convertible senior notes (1) $ - $ - $ - $ 650,000 $ - $ 650,000 $ 1,300,000 average interest rate 0.5% 0.6% capital lease obligations, including current portion $ 286 $ 159 $ 100 $ 57 $ 19 $ - $ 621 average interest rate 7.2% 6.3% 5.3% 3.0% 3.0% (1) in april 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2011 (2011 notes) and $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2013 (2013 notes) in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the 2011 notes and 2013 notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625%, respectively, and may be converted subject to certain circumstances. credit risk in february 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for auction rate securities whose underlying assets are comprised of student loans. as of december 31, 2007, we held approximately $157.7 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities of which $145.1 million were securities whose underlying assets were comprised of student loans. our auction rate securities comprised approximately 5% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of december 31, 2007. most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated aaa, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy. we believe that given our cash and marketable securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we are able to hold the securities until there is a recovery in the auction market and the related securities, which may be at final maturity. our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2007 was $795.1 million, compared to $609.3 million at december 31, 2006. the growth in our accounts receivable balances was primarily due to higher product sales of our hiv products in the united states and europe. in certain countries where payments are typically slow, primarily greece, italy, portugal and spain, our aggregated accounts receivable balance was significant. in most cases, these slow payment practices reflect the pace at which governmental entities reimburse our customers. this, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. sales to customers in countries that tend to be relatively slow-paying have in the past increased, and in the future may further increase, the average length of time that accounts receivable are outstanding. at december 31, 2007, our past due accounts receivable for greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled $286.3 million, of which $147.6 million was more than 120 days past due. to date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable, and we believe that substantially all of our accounts receivable balances are collectible. we perform credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally have not required collateral. 68 table of contentsrisk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. a manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our hiv products. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of our hiv products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of hiv, especially truvada and atripla, to support our existing operations. our hiv products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (r&amp;d) efforts. hiv product sales for the year ended december 31, 2008 were $4.33 billion, or 81% of our total revenues, and sales of truvada and atripla accounted for 49% and 36%, respectively, of our total hiv product sales during 2008. we may not be able to sustain the growth rate of sales of our hiv products for the reasons stated in this risk factor section and, in particular, for the following reasons: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as our hiv products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. 22 table of contents our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers, pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price. during the year ended december 31, 2008, approximately 90% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, cardinal health, inc., mckesson corp. and amerisourcebergen corp. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand. as a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. in addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers orders from us, even though end user demand has not changed. for example, in the fourth quarter of 2008, strong prescription demand for truvada and atripla was not fully reflected in our revenues for the fourth quarter. we believe this is because during the quarter, inventories were drawn down within the retail distribution channel. as inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see the mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our revenues. in addition, the non-retail sector in the united states, which includes government institutions, including state aids drug assistance programs (adap), correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror the purchasing patterns that can be seen within the retail sector. for example, in the first quarter of 2008, we observed large non-retail purchases by a small number of state adaps that purchase centrally and have significant warehousing capacity. we believe such purchases were driven by the grant cycle for federal adap funds rather than current patient demand, which tempered orders and our associated product sales, revenues and earnings in the second quarter of 2008 as these organizations depleted their increased inventory levels established during the first quarter of 2008. we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our product sales, revenues and earnings in the future. we estimate the future demand for our products, consider the shelf life of our inventory and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. if actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our stock price. if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our r&amp;d efforts. for example, in december 2007, the committee for medicinal product for human use of the european medicines agency (emea) granted marketing authorization for atripla in the european union for the treatment of hiv-1 infection in adults with virologic suppression to hiv-1 rna levels of less than 50 copies/ml on their current combination antiretroviral therapy for more than three months. patients must not have experienced virological failure on any prior antiretroviral therapy and must be known not to have harbored virus strains with mutations conferring significant resistance to any of the three components contained in atripla. this restriction of atripla use in the european union will prevent us from promoting atripla for use in patients who are not currently achieving this reduction in viral load through the use of antiretroviral therapy, including newly diagnosed patients. if we seek to expand the indication for atripla in the european union, the emea may require us to perform additional clinical trials, which we may be unable to complete. if we are unable to expand the indication for atripla to include a broader population of patients, the impact to future sales of atripla in the 23 table of contents european union is unknown but could be more limited than in other markets, including the united states, where we have no such restrictions. in addition, sales of atripla may increase at the expense of product sales of its component products and our overall total revenues and gross margin may not increase as atripla sales increase. further, the marketing authorization application submitted by us for aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (cf) in the united states was delayed when we received a complete response letter from the fda informing us that the fda will not approve the application in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional phase 3 clinical study. in november 2008, we filed a request for dispute resolution with the fda to determine whether further analyses of the existing data could lead to approval or whether we will need to conduct an additional study. in february 2009, in response to our appeal, the fda notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our new drug application (nda). existing data from any ongoing or from any additional clinical trial that we may commence to satisfy fda concerns may not support fda approval of aztreonam for inhalation solution, which may cause us considerable expense and may lead to further delays or cause us to abandon further development of the product. there are also risks that health authorities in other countries where marketing authorization applications are pending will undertake similar additional reviews which would compound the risks described above. a significant portion of our product sales occur outside the united states, and currency fluctuations may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. because a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. the net foreign currency exchange impact on our 2008 revenues and pre-tax earnings, which includes revenues and expenses generated from outside the united states, was a favorable $148.2 million and $92.6 million, respectively, compared to 2007. recently, the u.s. dollar has appreciated against major european currencies, and the amount of the favorable impact on our product sales which resulted from the previously relatively weak u.s. dollar has decreased. we use foreign currency forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. we cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar continues to appreciate against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results of operation will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. we face significant competition. we face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from glaxosmithkline inc. (gsk), which markets fixed dose combination products that compete with truvada and atripla. for hepsera and viread for treatment of chronic hepatitis b, we compete primarily with products produced by gsk, bristol-myers squibb company (bms) and novartis pharmaceuticals corporation (novartis) in the united states, the european union and china. for ambisome, we compete primarily with products produced by merck &amp; co., inc. (merck) and pfizer inc. (pfizer). in addition, we are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the possible entry of one such formulation in greece. these formulations may reduce market demand 24 table of contents for ambisome. furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin b is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of ambisome may be negatively impacted by association. letairis competes directly with actelion pharmaceuticals us, inc. (actelion) and indirectly with pah products from united therapeutics corporation and pfizer. tamiflu competes with products sold by gsk and generic competitors. aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cf, if approved for marketing, will compete with a product marketed by novartis. in addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our research programs. these competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products and programs. if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. as our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. our product letairis, which was approved by the fda in june 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. because of these risks, letairis is available only through the letairis education and access program (leap), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. as the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of letairis which may decrease demand for the product. for example, since the launch of letairis, cases of edema in certain patients taking letairis have been reported. this information has recently been added to the product label, which may negatively impact demand for the product. if serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, including letairis, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for truvada, atripla, viread, hepsera, emtriva, ambisome and letairis for currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a timely basis, or at all. in september 2008, we received a complete response letter from the fda informing us that the fda will not approve our nda for aztreonam for inhalation solution for treatment of cf in its current form and requesting we conduct an additional phase 3 clinical study. in november 2008, we filed a request for dispute resolution with 25 table of contents the fda to determine whether further analyses of the existing data could lead to approval or whether we will need to conduct an additional study. in february 2009, in response to our appeal, the fda notified us that it is reiterating its position that we will need to conduct another clinical study of aztreonam for inhalation solution before we can resubmit our nda. existing data from any ongoing clinical trials or any additional clinical trial that we may commence to satisfy fda concerns may not support fda approval of aztreonam for inhalation solution, which may cause us considerable expense and may lead to further delays or cause us to abandon further development of the product. there are also risks that health authorities in other countries where marketing authorization applications are pending will undertake similar additional reviews which would compound the risks described above. in addition, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. on september 27, 2007, president bush signed into law the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, which significantly expanded the fda authority, including, among other things, to: require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product lifecycle, based on new safety information; and require sponsors to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers or other elements as the fda deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the fda, could result in significant civil monetary penalties. the results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. we are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. if the clinical trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. for example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel hiv integrase inhibitor; darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension; and ambrisentan for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf), each currently in phase 3 clinical trials that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. these risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain fda and other regulatory body approvals. as a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. if these programs and others in 26 table of contents our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. due to our reliance on third party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on independent third party contract research organizations (cros), over which we do not have control, to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. if there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third party cros. if any of our cros processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. these include collaborations with bms for atripla in the united states, europe and canada; roche for tamiflu; and gsk for ambrisentan in territories outside of the united states. in some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of truvada, viread, hepsera, emtriva and ambisome. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including: our inability to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products; disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners; disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; our corporate partners having considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline. under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and south korea. the success of hepsera in 27 table of contents these territories depends almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv/zeffix. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera in its territories, our potential revenues from sales of hepsera from these territories may be substantially reduced. in addition, letairis is distributed through third party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. the use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will: not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints; not effectively sell or support letairis; not devote the resources necessary to sell letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or cease operations. we also rely on a third party to administer leap, the restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. this third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for letairis by the fda and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third party specialty pharmacies. failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the fda or decreased letairis sales, either of which would harm our business. further, we will be dependent on the supplier of the inhalation device that delivers aztreonam for inhalation solution, if and when regulatory approval is obtained, to distribute the device through specialty pharmacies or other distribution channels, and we will not have control over many key aspects related to the device. for example, the supplier could encounter issues with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device at the time of a commercial launch or following such a launch. moreover, because this device will be subject to a separate reimbursement approval process, in the event our supplier is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales of aztreonam for inhalation solution may be adversely affected. in addition, we may not be able to obtain adequate supplies of inhalation devices. any of the previously described issues may limit or further delay the commercial launch of aztreonam for inhalation solution, which would adversely affect our financial results. our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payor reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. in the united states, the european union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third party payors are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. for example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. in addition, the 28 table of contents increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the united states and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the european union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. in europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many european countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. for example, we have not launched atripla in france as we remain in reimbursement discussions with french government authorities. reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, retrospective taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. in recent years, many countries in the european union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of the global economic downturn. as new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the european countries. we believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. as a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth. our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and future health care reforms. legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. there have been significant changes to the federal medicare system in recent years in the united states that could impact the pricing of our products. under the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under medicare part d. the prescription drug program began on january 1, 2006 and although we have benefited from patients transitioning from medicaid to medicare part d since 2006, the longer term impact of medicare part d on our business is not yet clear to us, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. third party payors providing medicare part d coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for medicare pricing. the increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for medicare part d enrollees. further, medicare patients have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. our results of operations could be materially adversely affected by the reimbursement changes emerging from medicare prescription drug coverage legislation. in addition to federal medicare proposals, state medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. additionally, any additional statutory or regulatory changes, including potential changes to medicare part d, and health care reform at both the federal and state levels could adversely affect payment for our drugs and demand for our product. at this time, a few states have already enacted health care reform legislation, and the federal government and individual state governments continue to consider health care reform policies and legislation. the pricing and reimbursement environment for our products may change in the future and become more challenging due to, among other reasons, new policies of the new presidential administration or new health care legislation passed by congress. 29 table of contents the ryan white program, the largest federal program designed to provide care and support services for people living with hiv in the united states, provides funding for our hiv products through state aids drug assistance programs (adap) to many patients who are uninsured or underinsured. federal funding is appropriated by congress each year and is provided to cities, states, providers and other organizations. in addition to federal funding, some states and localities provide additional funding for ryan white services. the program is due to be reauthorized again by september 2009 unless otherwise extended by congress, and there may be changes to the program which would change or decrease the funding available for our hiv products. for example, if appropriations for ryan white are held at the same amount as in previous years and more people access our drugs through adap, then it is likely that we will face pressures to provide even greater discounts for drugs purchased through the program. in addition, falling state revenues and budget cuts may result in reduction of state or local funding for ryan white, which could lead to increased demand on our patient assistance programs, under which we offer our hiv products free of charge to eligible patients. expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. if we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. as part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the united states and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. in addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events. 30 table of contents from time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. for example, in 2007, the public patent foundation filed requests for re-examination with the united states patent and trademark office (pto) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in truvada, atripla and viread. the pto granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. in 2008, the pto confirmed the patentability of all four patents. although we were successful in responding to the pto office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. for example, in april 2008, the brazilian health ministry, citing the pending u.s. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in brazil. in august 2008, an examiner in the brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in brazil. we have filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. if we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the brazilian patent authority will reject the tenofovir df patent application. if the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application is rejected by the brazilian patent authority, the brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of hiv products in brazil. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis b infection, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. flolan patent and market exclusivity protection has expired. as a result, one or more generic pharmaceutical companies may launch a generic version of flolan in the united states. we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. it is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (anda), which is the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. if our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. for example, in november 2008, we received notice that teva pharmaceuticals submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by emory university and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit in u.s. district court in new york against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the action and we may spend significant resources defending these patents. if we are unsuccessful in the lawsuit, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for truvada in the united states would be shortened to expire in 2017 instead of 2021. in august 2007, the pto adopted new rules which were scheduled to become effective on november 1, 2007. in october 2007, gsk successfully obtained a preliminary injunction against implementation of these rules, and in april 2008, the court ruled in support of gsk challenge to the rules and obtained a permanent 31 table of contents injunction against their implementation. the rules would have restricted the number of claims permitted in a patent application and the number of continuing patent applications that can be filed. following the court ruling, the pto filed a notice of appeal to the federal court of appeals. if the pto successfully appeals the court decision and the rules are implemented, we may be limited in our ability to obtain broad patent coverage for our products and product candidates, which may allow competitors to market products very similar to ours or to obtain patent coverage for closely related products. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. for example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of leap, our restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. in addition, actelion, which markets tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a method of use for endothelin receptor antagonists (eras) for the treatment of ipf. if issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own era, ambrisentan, for ipf. furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. we, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to the fda current good manufacturing practices (gmp), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. similar regulations are in effect in other countries. our manufacturing operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. additionally, these third party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. if we or any of these third party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. to the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected. our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize aztreonam for inhalation solution, if approved, will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility. aztreonam is a mono-bactam gram-negative antibiotic that we currently plan to manufacture, by ourselves or through third parties, in multi-product manufacturing facilities. historically, the fda has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the fda will continue to allow this practice. we do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of aztreonam for inhalation solution nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for aztreonam for inhalation solution. if the fda prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam for inhalation solution, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of aztreonam for inhalation solution and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product, if approved. 32 table of contents we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. we need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to manufacture our products. in light of the economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used in our manufacturing process. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these materials or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an nda filed with the fda for any product candidate for which we are seeking fda approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. even after a manufacturer is qualified by the fda, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with gmp. manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the fda following initial approval. if, as a result of these inspections, the fda determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable fda regulations and conditions of product approval, the fda may suspend the manufacturing operations. if the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. in addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. in addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we manufacture ambisome and fill and finish macugen exclusively at our facilities in san dimas, california. in the event of a natural disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs. our product candidate, aztreonam for inhalation solution, which is pending fda approval, is dependent on four different single-source suppliers. first, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. second, it is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. third, the fda recently approved our facilities in san dimas to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, subject to fda approval of the product and delivery device. the san dimas facility is the only manufacturing site authorized to manufacture aztreonam for inhalation solution, although we are pursuing fda approval of a third party supplier. fourth, the diluent for aztreonam for inhalation solution will be manufactured by a single manufacturer at a single site. in addition, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. we also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient and for the tableting of letairis. problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts. we face credit risks from our european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. this has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. our accounts receivable in these countries totaled approximately $543.8 million as of december 31, 2008, of which $191.0 million was more than 120 days past due. historically, receivables accumulated over a period of time and were settled as large lump sum payments as government funding became available. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these european governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. 33 table of contents our product revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly truvada and viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to more than 125 countries participating in our gilead access program, or atripla, which merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to hiv infected patients in developing countries under our august 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, we have established partnerships with ten indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing world countries, including india. if generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the united states, europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. for example, in the european union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another country. purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and be more difficult to forecast. in addition, wholesalers may attempt to arbitrage the pricing differential between countries by purchasing excessive quantities of our products. these activities may result in fluctuating quarterly sales in certain countries which do not reflect the actual demand for our products from customers. such quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price. for example, during 2007, we experienced increased sales of our hiv products in france. we believe a portion of these products was being re-exported to other countries and resold at higher prices. our sales of truvada and viread in france and any countries to or from which sales have been re-exported may continue to fluctuate. although we established an order management system in france in december 2007 to manage truvada and viread sales to facilitate the adequate and appropriate supply of those products commensurate with market demand in france, there can be no assurance that this management system will be effective or that these re-exporting activities will not continue in france, other european countries or elsewhere, and as a result, our results of operations could be adversely affected. in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at low cost. alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. for example, in the past, certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. as a result of discussions with the brazilian government, we reached agreement with the brazilian health ministry in may 2006 to reduce the price of viread in brazil by approximately 50%. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. for example, the canadian government may allow canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under canada access to medicines regime. furthermore, roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party 34 table of contents manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche has granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. in recent years, coverage and availability of product liability insurance has decreased. in addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. if we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and to market our products will be adversely impacted. in addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition. our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially impact our business. we continually evaluate our levels of self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. however, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses. expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings. in november 2008, we received notice that teva pharmaceuticals submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine, owned by emory university and licensed exclusively to us, are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit in u.s. district court in new york against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of the action, and we may spend significant resources defending these patents. if we are unsuccessful in the lawsuit, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated, and the patent protection for truvada in the united states would be shortened to expire in 2017 instead of 2021. in addition, we, along with certain of our officers and a former officer, were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws. the lawsuit was dismissed by the united states district court for the northern district of california, but in august 2008 the united states court of appeals for the ninth circuit reversed the dismissal and remanded the case to the district court. in february 2009, we filed a petition for a writ of certiorari with the supreme court of the united states, requesting that the court review the judgment of the court of appeals. while the supreme court reviews our petition, the case continues before the district court. further, in november 2006, we received a subpoena from the u.s. attorney office in san francisco requesting documents regarding our marketing and medical education programs for truvada, viread and 35 table of contents emtriva. we have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry. the outcome of the class action lawsuit, any other lawsuits brought against us, the investigation or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of r&amp;d spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and finalization of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income. our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. we are currently under examination by the internal revenue service for the 2003 and 2004 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. there are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. changes in accounting may affect our financial position and results of operations. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new pronouncements or the application of existing pronouncements to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. for example, in may 2008, the financial accounting standards board (fasb) issued fasb staff position no. apb 14-1, accounting for convertible debt instruments that may be settled in cash upon conversion (including partial cash settlement) (fsp apb 14-1). fsp apb 14-1 addresses instruments commonly referred to as instrument c from emerging issues task force issue no. 90-19, convertible bonds with issuer option to settle for cash upon conversion , which requires the issuer to settle the principal amount in cash and the conversion spread in cash or net shares at the issuer option. fsp apb 14-1 requires that issuers of these instruments account for their liability and equity components separately by bifurcating the conversion option from the debt instrument, classifying the conversion option in equity and then accreting the resulting discount on the debt as additional interest expense over the expected life of the debt. fsp apb 14-1 is effective for fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008 and interim periods within those fiscal years, and requires retrospective application to all periods presented. early application is not permitted. we expect that the adoption of fsp apb 14-1 will have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and results of operations. based on the requirements of fsp apb 14-1, we estimate that if fsp apb 14-1 was effective for the current and comparative periods, we would have reported additional interest expense related to our convertible senior notes of approximately $53.2 million, $50.0 million and $32.7 million during 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. in addition, in december 2007, the fasb issued statement of financial accounting standards (sfas) no. 141 (revised 2007), business combinations (sfas 141r). sfas 141r establishes principles and requirements for recognizing and measuring assets acquired, liabilities assumed and any noncontrolling interests in the acquiree in a business combination. sfas 141r also provides guidance for recognizing and measuring goodwill acquired in a business combination; requires purchased in-process research and development to be 36 table of contents capitalized at fair value as intangible assets at the time of acquisition; requires acquisition-related expenses and restructuring costs to be recognized separately from the business combination; expands the definition of what constitutes a business; and requires the acquirer to disclose information that users may need to evaluate and understand the financial effect of the business combination. sfas 141r is effective on a prospective basis and will impact business combination transactions for which the acquisition date occurs in fiscal years beginning after december 15, 2008. depending on the nature and magnitude of our future business combination transactions, sfas 141r may have a material impact on our consolidated financial position and/or results of operations. if we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. we face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. if we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states, canada and ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and australia. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which is the euro. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. we enter into foreign currency exchange forward contracts and foreign currency exchange option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. in general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. in recent years, foreign currency exchange fluctuations have primarily had a positive impact to product sales and gross margin; however, the full impact of the foreign currency fluctuations have been moderated by our hedging program. 66 table of contents the following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts at december 31, 2008. all contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of u.s. dollars per foreign currency. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2008 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars in thousands): foreign currency exchange forward contracts currency notional amount weighted-average settlement price fair value euro $ 1,867,814 1.45 $ 42,919 british pound 154,339 1.69 21,575 australian dollar 49,241 0.73 2,767 danish krone 23,046 5.33 152 norwegian krone 10,409 7.15 (9 ) swiss franc 46,785 1.05 (82 ) total $ 2,151,634 $ 67,322 foreign currency exchange option contracts currency notional amount weighted-average strike price fair value british pound $ 42,234 2.00 $ 11,547 euro 183,979 1.44 9,571 australian dollar 10,573 0.88 2,279 total $ 236,786 $ 23,397 total foreign exchange forward and option contracts $ 2,388,420 $ 90,719 the total notional amount of $2.39 billion and total fair value relating to our net asset of $90.7 million on our open foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts at december 31, 2008 compares with a total notional amount of $1.61 billion and a total fair value relating to our net liability of $11.5 million on our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2007. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on duration, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. 67 table of contents the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2008 (dollars in thousands): years ending december 31, thereafter total fair value at december 31, 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 assets available-for-sale debt securities $ 1,265,660 $ 479,908 $ 584,164 $ 68,108 $ 50,399 $ 101,796 $ 2,550,035 average interest rate 1.9% 2.1% 2.2% 3.8% 3.8% 2.3% liabilities convertible senior notes (1) $ $ $ 649,987 $ $ 649,867 $ $ 1,299,854 average interest rate 0.5% 0.6% (1) in april 2006, we issued $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2011 (2011 notes) and $650.0 million principal amount of convertible senior notes due 2013 (2013 notes) in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the 2011 notes and 2013 notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625%, respectively, and may be converted subject to certain circumstances. credit risk a portion of our marketable securities are held in auction rate securities. in 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for auction rate securities whose underlying assets are comprised of student loans. as of december 31, 2008, we held approximately $122.4 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities whose underlying assets were comprised of student loans. our auction rate securities comprised approximately 4% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of december 31, 2008. most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated aaa, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy. if auctions continue to fail for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. however, we believe that, based on our total cash and marketable securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we are able to hold these securities until there is a recovery in the auction market, which may be at final maturity. as a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital. in light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continued to review our cash equivalents and marketable securities carefully as well as invest prudently in 2008. we believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements, has protected us from much of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other opportunities such as our $500.0 million and $750.0 million accelerated share repurchases. our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2008 was $1.02 billion, compared to $795.1 million at december 31, 2007. the growth in our accounts receivable balances was due primarily to higher product sales of our antiviral products in the united states and europe. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. this has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. this, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. sales to customers in these countries in europe that tend to pay relatively slowly have increased, and may continue to further increase, the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. at december 31, 2008, our accounts receivable for greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled $543.8 million, of which $191.0 million was more than 120 days past due. to 68 table of contents date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable, and we believe that substantially all of our accounts receivable balances are collectible. we perform credit evaluations of our customers financial condition and generally have not required collateral.risk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. a manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our hiv products, particularly truvada and atripla. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of these products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of hiv infection, particularly truvada and atripla, to support our existing operations. our hiv products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (r&amp;d) efforts. for the year ended december 31, 2009, truvada and atripla product sales together were $4.87 billion, or 69% of our total revenues. we may not be able to sustain the growth rate of sales of our hiv products, especially truvada and atripla, for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as our hiv products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. a portion of our pre-tax income is derived from royalty revenue recognized from sales of tamiflu by roche. if sales of tamiflu were to decrease, our pre-tax income will be disproportionately and adversely affected. f. hoffmann-la roche ltd (together with hoffmann-la roche inc., roche) markets tamiflu worldwide for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. we recognized $392.7 million in royalty revenue for the year ended december 31, 2009 related to royalties received from sales 23 table of contents of tamiflu by roche. although such royalty revenue represented approximately 6% of our total revenues in 2009, it represented 11% of our pre-tax income during the period. roche tamiflu sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. sales of tamiflu increased sharply in 2009 primarily as a result of pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. if sales of tamiflu were to decrease, our royalty revenues will decrease and our pre-tax income will decrease disproportionately. any such decrease could be material and could adversely impact our operating results. our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers, pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price. in 2009, approximately 85% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, cardinal health, inc., mckesson corp. and amerisourcebergen corp. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand. as a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. in addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers orders from us, even if end user demand has not changed. for example, during the second quarter of 2009, the wholesalers increased their inventory levels for atripla and truvada, while inventory levels for viread decreased. in the third quarter of 2009, the wholesalers drew down on their inventory such that inventory levels for atripla and truvada at the end of the third quarter were more consistent with the levels held during the first quarter of 2009. as inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see fluctuations in our earnings and a mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our revenues. in addition, the non-retail sector in the united states, which includes government institutions, including state aids drug assistance programs (adap), correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent in terms of buying patterns, and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror the purchasing patterns that can be seen within the retail sector. for example, in the first quarter of 2008, we observed large non-retail purchases by a small number of state adaps that purchase centrally and have significant warehousing capacity. we believe such purchases were driven by the grant cycle for federal adap funds rather than current patient demand, which tempered orders and our associated product sales, revenues and earnings in the second quarter of 2008 as these organizations depleted their increased inventory levels established during the first quarter of 2008. we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our product sales, revenues and earnings in the future. we estimate the future demand for our products, consider the shelf life of our inventory and regularly review the realizability of our inventory. if actual demand is less than our estimated demand, we could be required to record inventory write-downs, which would have an adverse impact on our results of operations and our stock price. if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our r&amp;d efforts. for example, in december 2009, we announced our phase 3 clinical trial evaluating darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension did not achieve its co-primary efficacy endpoints and as a result of this outcome, we decided to discontinue the development of darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension. 24 table of contents approximately 45% of our product sales occur outside the united states, and currency fluctuations and hedging expenses may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. because a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increases. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. we use foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. we cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar appreciates significantly against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results of operations will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. additionally, the expenses that we recognize in relation to our hedging activities can also cause our earnings to fluctuate. the level of hedging expenses that we recognize in a particular period is impacted by the changes in interest rate spreads between the foreign currencies that we hedge and the u.s. dollar. we face significant competition. we face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from the joint venture established by glaxosmithkline inc. (gsk) and pfizer inc. (pfizer) which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with truvada and atripla. in may 2010, the compound patent covering epivir (lamivudine) itself will expire. lamivudine, marketed by the joint venture established by gsk and pfizer, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of emtriva and a component of both truvada and atripla. certain third party payors or plans may use the entry of generic lamivudine as a reason to exert pricing pressure on our hiv products. for hepsera and viread for treatment of chronic hepatitis b, we compete primarily with products produced by gsk, bristol-myers squibb company (bms) and novartis pharmaceuticals corporation (novartis) in the united states, the european union and china. for ambisome, we compete primarily with products produced by merck &amp; co., inc. (merck) and pfizer. in addition, we are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the possible entry of one such formulation in greece. these formulations may reduce market demand for ambisome. furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin b is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of ambisome may be negatively impacted by association. letairis competes directly with actelion pharmaceuticals us, inc. (actelion) and indirectly with pah products from united therapeutics corporation and pfizer. ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates for the treatment of chronic angina in the united states. cayston competes with a product marketed by novartis. tamiflu competes with products sold by gsk and generic competitors. in addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our existing products or research programs. these competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical 25 table of contents companies. furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs. if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. as our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. our product letairis, which was approved by the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) in june 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists (eras) which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. because of these risks, letairis is available only through the letairis education and access program (leap), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. as the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of letairis which may decrease demand for the product. for example, since the launch of letairis, cases of edema in certain patients taking letairis have been reported. this information has recently been added to the product label, which may negatively impact demand for the product. if serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, including letairis, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for truvada, atripla, viread, hepsera, emtriva, ambisome, letairis, ranexa and cayston for currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a timely basis, or at all. further, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. on september 27, 2007, president bush signed into law the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, which significantly expanded the fda authority, including, among other things, to: require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; 26 table of contents mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product lifecycle, based on new safety information; and require sponsors to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers or other elements as the fda deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the fda, could result in significant civil monetary penalties and our operating results may be adversely affected. the results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. we are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. for example, in december 2009, we announced our phase 3 clinical trial evaluating darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension did not achieve its co-primary efficacy endpoints and as a result of this outcome, we decided to discontinue the development of darusentan for the treatment of resistant hypertension. in addition, we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. if the clinical trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. for example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel hiv integrase inhibitor for the treatment of hiv infection; the fixed-dose regimen of truvada and tmc278 for the treatment of hiv infection; and ambrisentan for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf), each currently in phase 3 clinical trials that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. these risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain fda and other regulatory body approvals. as a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. if these programs and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. due to our reliance on third party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on independent third party contract research organizations (cros), to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. many important aspects of the services performed for us by the cros are out of our direct control. if there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third party cros. if any of our cros processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. 27 table of contents our results of operations could be adversely affected by current and potential future health care reforms. legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. there have been significant changes to the federal medicare system in recent years in the united states that could impact the pricing of our products. under the medicare prescription drug improvement and modernization act of 2003, medicare beneficiaries are able to elect coverage for prescription drugs under medicare part d. the prescription drug program began on january 1, 2006 and although we have benefited from patients transitioning from medicaid to medicare part d since 2006, the longer term impact of medicare part d on our business is not clear, and the impact will depend in part on specific decisions regarding the level of coverage provided for the therapeutic categories in which our products are included, the terms on which such coverage is provided, and the extent to which preference is given to selected products in a category. third party payers providing medicare part d coverage have attempted to negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers. in addition, discussions are taking place at the federal level to pass legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for medicare pricing. the increasing pressure to lower prescription drug prices may limit drug access for medicare part d enrollees. further, medicare patients have to pay co-insurance, which may influence which products are recommended by physicians and selected by patients. in addition to federal medicare proposals, state medicaid drug payment changes could also lower payment for our products. to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. both president obama administration and the united states congress have made healthcare reform a top priority and have proposed reforms to extend coverage to millions of uninsured americans and to reduce the rate of growth in the costs of government-sponsored healthcare programs. impending reform legislation in congress may include reducing the coverage and reimbursement of our products and additional healthcare reform costs being borne by pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, including us, which could have an adverse impact on our business. we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. these include collaborations with bms for atripla in the united states, europe and canada; roche for tamiflu; and gsk for ambrisentan in territories outside of the united states. in some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of truvada, viread, hepsera, emtriva and ambisome. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the risk that: we are unable to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products; disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners; disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; 28 table of contents our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline. under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and south korea. in november 2009, we entered into an agreement with gsk that provided gsk with exclusive commercialization rights and registration responsibilities for viread for the treatment of chronic hbv in china. the success of hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hbv in these territories depends almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hbv may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv/zeffix. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hbv as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera or viread for the treatment of chronic hbv in its territories, our potential revenues in these territories may be substantially reduced. in addition, cayston and letairis are distributed through third party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. the use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will: not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints; not effectively sell or support cayston or letairis; not devote the resources necessary to sell cayston or letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or cease operations. we also rely on a third party to administer leap, the restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. this third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for letairis by the fda and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third party specialty pharmacies. failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the fda or decreased letairis sales, either of which would harm our business. further, cayston may only be taken by patients using a specific inhalation device that delivers the drug to the lungs of patients. our commercial launch of cayston and ongoing distribution of cayston are entirely reliant upon the manufacturer of that device. for example, the manufacturer could encounter other issues with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device at the time of commercial launch or following a commercial launch. in addition, the manufacturer may not be able to provide 29 table of contents adequate warranty support for the device after it has been distributed to patients. with respect to distribution of the drug and device to patients, we are reliant on the capabilities of specialty pharmacies. for example, the distribution channel for drug and device is complicated and requires coordination. the reimbursement approval processes associated with both drug and device are similarly complex. if the device manufacturer is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales of cayston may be adversely affected. any of the previously described issues may limit or further delay the commercial launch of cayston, which would adversely affect our financial results. our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third party payer reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. in the united states, the european union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. for example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. in addition, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the united states and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the european union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product revenues and profitability. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and health care reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. in europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many european countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. recently, many countries in the european union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and we expect this to continue as countries attempt to manage health care expenditures, especially in light of the global economic downturn. as new drugs come to market, we may face significant price decreases for our products across most of the european countries. we believe that this will continue into the foreseeable future as governments struggle with escalating health care spending. as a result of these pricing practices, it may become difficult to maintain our historic levels of profitability or to achieve expected rates of growth. expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter, and the fda and/or other regulatory agencies may require more clinical testing than we originally anticipated. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline. 30 table of contents our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. if we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. as part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the united states and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our patents. in addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events. from time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. for example, in 2007, the public patent foundation filed requests for re-examination with the united states patent and trademark office (pto) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in truvada, atripla and viread. the pto granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. in 2008, the pto confirmed the patentability of all four patents. although we were successful in responding to the pto office actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. for example, in april 2008, the brazilian health ministry, citing the u.s. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in brazil. in august 2008, an examiner in the brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in brazil. we then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. in july 2009, the brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. this was the highest level of appeal available to us within the brazilian patent authority. we have filed a civil action in brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the brazilian patent authority. we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. if we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of hiv products in brazil. as another example, the patent office of india initially allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. however, under indian civil procedure, prior to the official grant of the allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant the patents. in august 2009, the indian patent office announced that it had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. we have filed an 31 table of contents appeal within the indian patent office on both of these applications. we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. if we are unable to successfully appeal these decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. in the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in india. in addition, if we are unable to successfully appeal any further negative decisions by the indian patent office in the indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the amount of royalties we receive from our indian generic licenses. in 2009, the brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our hiv products. for 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our hiv products by the brazilian government will be at a similar level. patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of ranexa. instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they achieve. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis b, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. it is, therefore, possible that generic manufacturers are considering attempts to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (anda), which is the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. if our patents are subject to challenges, we may need to spend significant resources to defend such challenges and we may not be able to defend our patents successfully. for example, in november 2008, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. in march 2009, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of atripla. in the notice, teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in december 2008. in january 2010, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of viread. in the notice, teva challenged four of the tenofovir patents protecting viread. in january 2010, we also received notices from teva amending its andas related to truvada and atripla. in the notice related to truvada, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. in the notice related to atripla, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. we expect to file a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the four viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. bms and merck have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. if we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for truvada, atripla and viread in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the fda could approve teva request to manufacture a generic version of such products. 32 table of contents our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. for example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of leap, our restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. in addition, actelion, which markets tracleer, has applied for a patent that claims a method of use for eras for the treatment of ipf. if issued, this patent may interfere with our efforts to commercialize our own era, ambrisentan, for the treatment of ipf. furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. we, our third party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to the fda current good manufacturing practices (gmp), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards. similar regulations are in effect in other countries. our manufacturing operations are also subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. additionally, these third party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. if we or any of these third party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. to the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected. our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility. aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in cayston, is a mono-bactam gram-negative antibiotic that we manufacture, by ourselves or through third parties, in multi-product manufacturing facilities. historically, the fda has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the fda will continue to allow this practice. we do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of cayston nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for cayston. if the fda prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of cayston and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product. we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. we need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to manufacture our products. in light of the economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used 33 table of contents in our manufacturing process. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these materials or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an nda filed with the fda for any product candidate for which we are seeking fda approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. even after a manufacturer is qualified by the fda, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with gmp. manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the fda following initial approval. if, as a result of these inspections, the fda determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable fda regulations and conditions of product approval, the fda may suspend the manufacturing operations. if the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. in addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. in addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we manufacture ambisome and cayston and fill and finish macugen exclusively at our facilities in san dimas, california. in the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture ambisome, cayston and macugen to meet market needs. cayston is dependent on three different third party single-source suppliers. first, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. second, it is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. third, the diluent for cayston is manufactured by a single manufacturer at a single site. disruptions or delays with any of these single suppliers could adversely affect our ability to produce cayston in adequate quantities to support our commercial launch of cayston, and we cannot be sure that alternative suppliers can be identified in a timely manner, or at all. in addition, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. we also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of vistide, ranexa and cayston and for the tableting of emtiva and letairis. astellas us llc, which markets lexiscan in the united states, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in united states and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of lexiscan. problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts. we face credit risks from our european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. this has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. our accounts receivable in these countries totaled approximately $753.6 million as of december 31, 2009, of which $289.4 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual payment terms. historically, receivables balances with certain government owned hospitals accumulated over a period of time and were then subsequently settled as large lump sum payments. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these european governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. for example, at december 31, 2009, we had $100.8 million due from publicly-owned hospitals in greece. in the event that the greek government defaulted on its debt, we may be unable to collect some or all of these amounts due. 34 table of contents our product revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly truvada and viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to 130 countries participating in our gilead access program, or atripla, which merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to hiv infected patients in developing countries under our august 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, we have established partnerships with thirteen indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing world countries, including india. if generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the united states, europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. for example, in the european union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another country. purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and not reflect the actual consumer demand in any given quarter. these quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price and harm our business. in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at low cost. alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. for example, in the past, certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. in july 2009, the brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in viread. this was the highest level of appeal available to us within the brazilian patent authority. we have filed a civil action in brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the brazilian patent authority. if we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of hiv products in brazil. in 2009, the brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our hiv products. for 2010, we anticipate that purchases of our hiv products by the brazilian government will be at a similar level. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic and h1n1 influenza have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. for example, the canadian government may allow canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under canada access to medicines regime. furthermore, roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche has granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of 35 table of contents our patents, and third party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. in recent years, coverage and availability of cost-effective product liability insurance has decreased. in addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. if we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and to market our products will be adversely impacted. in addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition. our assumptions used to determine our self-insurance levels could be wrong and materially impact our business. we continually evaluate our levels of self-insurance based on historical claims experience, demographic factors, severity factors and other actuarial assumptions. however, if future occurrences and claims differ from these assumptions and historical trends, our business, financial results and financial condition could be materially impacted by claims and other expenses. expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings. in november 2008, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. in march 2009, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of atripla. in the notice, teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in december 2008. in january 2010, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of viread. in the notice, teva challenged four of the tenofovir patents protecting viread. in january 2010, we also received notices from teva amending its andas related to truvada and atripla. in the notice related to truvada, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. in the notice related to atripla, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. we expect to file a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the four viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. bms and merck have the rights to enforce and defend the patents related to efavirenz. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. if we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for truvada, atripla and viread in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the fda could approve teva request to manufacture a generic version of such products. in addition, we, along with certain of our officers and a former officer, were named as defendants in a class action lawsuit alleging violations of federal securities laws. further, in august 2009, we received a subpoena from the office of the inspector general of the u.s. department of health and human services requesting documents regarding the development, marketing and sales of ranexa. we have been cooperating and will continue to cooperate with any related governmental inquiry. 36 table of contents the outcome of the lawsuits above, any other lawsuits that may be brought against us, the investigation or any other such investigations brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of r&amp;d spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income. our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. we are currently under examination by the internal revenue service for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. there are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. changes in accounting rules or policies may affect our financial position and results of operations. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. if we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. we face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. if we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states, canada and ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and australia. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, 63 table of contents the most significant of which is the euro. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. we enter into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. in general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. the following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2009. we had no foreign currency exchange option contracts outstanding at december 31, 2009. all contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of u.s. dollars per foreign currency. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2009 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars and in thousands): foreign currency exchange forward contracts currency notional amount weighted-average settlement price fair value euro $ 2,728,279 1.43 $ (4,430 ) british pound 311,293 1.60 2,305 canadian dollar 153,218 1.12 (11,216 ) australian dollar 81,632 0.84 (5,228 ) swiss franc 67,976 1.06 (898 ) danish krone 35,130 5.22 (318 ) swedish krone 27,097 7.38 (581 ) norwegian krone 18,163 6.05 (750 ) new zealand dollar 16,683 0.81 (366 ) turkish lira 6,134 1.52 (7 ) total $ 3,445,605 $ (21,489 ) the total notional amount of $3.45 billion and total fair value relating to our net liability of $21.5 million on our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2009 compares with the total notional amount of $2.39 billion and total fair value relating to our net asset of $90.7 million on our open foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts at december 31, 2008. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. 64 table of contents the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2009 (dollars in thousands): years ending december 31, thereafter total total fair value at december 31, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 assets available-for-sale debt securities $ 442,757 $ 966,140 $ 854,743 $ 102,175 $ 23,020 $ 288,280 $ 2,677,115 $ 2,677,115 average interest rate 0.5 % 1.1 % 1.7 % 2.4 % 3.3 % 0.9 % liabilities convertible senior notes (1) $ $ 649,987 $ $ 649,867 $ $ $ 1,299,854 $ 1,577,695 average interest rate 0.5 % 0.6 % (1) in april 2006, we issued the notes in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625% for the 2011 notes and 2013 notes, respectively, and may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain circumstances. credit risk a portion of our marketable securities consist of auction rate securities. in 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for auction rate securities whose underlying assets are comprised of student loans. as of december 31, 2009, we held approximately $104.8 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities whose underlying assets were comprised of student loans. our auction rate securities comprised approximately 3% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of december 31, 2009. all of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated aaa, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy, are supported by the federal government as part of the federal family education loan program, and are over-collateralized. our auction rate securities reset every seven to 35 days with maturity dates ranging from 2023 through 2041 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.4% to 1.2%. as of december 31, 2009, our auction rate securities continued to earn interest. if auctions continue to fail for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par, should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. however, based on our total cash and marketable securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we believe that we will be able to hold these securities until there is a recovery in the auction market and the related securities, which may be at final maturity. as a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital. in light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continue to review our cash equivalents and marketable securities carefully and strive to invest prudently. we believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity, has protected us from many of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other strategic opportunities such as the acquisition of cv therapeutics in 2009. our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2009 was $1.39 billion, compared to $1.02 billion at december 31, 2008. the growth in our accounts receivable balance was due primarily to higher product sales of our antiviral products in the united states and europe. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. this has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. this, in turn, may increase the credit risk related to certain of our customers. sales to customers in these countries in europe that tend to pay relatively slowly have increased, and may continue to further increase. at december 31, 65 table of contents 2009, our accounts receivable for greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled $753.6 million, of which $289.4 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual payment terms. to date, we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable and believe that our accounts receivable, net of allowances, as reflected in our consolidated balance sheets, are collectible.risk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. a manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our hiv products, particularly atripla and truvada. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of these products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of hiv infection, particularly atripla and truvada, to support our existing operations. our hiv products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (r&amp;d) efforts. for the year ended december 31, 2010, atripla and truvada product sales together were $5.58 billion, or 70% of our total revenues. we may not be able to sustain the growth rate of sales of our hiv products, especially atripla and truvada, for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as our hiv products mature, private insurers and government reimbursers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our r&amp;d efforts. drug development is inherently risky and many product candidates fail during the drug development process. for example, in april 2010, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 2b clinical trial of gs 9450 for the treatment of chronic 28 table of contents hepatitis c. in january 2011, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 3 clinical trial of ambrisentan in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. in addition, in january 2011, we received a refuse to file notification from the u.s. food and drug administration (fda) regarding our new drug application (nda) for the single-tablet regimen of truvada and tibotec pharmaceuticals investigational tmc278 for the treatment of hiv-1 infection in adults. the fda requested additional information with respect to the chemistry, manufacturing and controls section of the nda. in february 2011, we re-filed our new drug application, which included the requested information, and are awaiting the fda response as to whether it is substantially complete to permit a substantive review. if the fda remains unsatisfied with the completeness of our application, our nda may not be approved or our timeline for obtaining regulatory approval for the product, if granted, may be further delayed. a portion of our pre-tax income is derived from royalty revenue recognized from sales of tamiflu by roche. if sales of tamiflu were to decrease, our pre-tax income will be disproportionately and adversely affected. f. hoffmann-la roche ltd (together with hoffmann-la roche inc., roche) markets tamiflu worldwide for the treatment and prevention of influenza under a royalty-paying collaborative agreement with us. we recognized $386.5 million in royalty revenue for the year ended december 31, 2010 related to royalties received from sales of tamiflu by roche. although such royalty revenue represented approximately 5% of our total revenues in 2010, it represented approximately 10% of our pre-tax income during the period. roche tamiflu sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. tamiflu royalties increased sharply in 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. tamiflu royalties declined sharply in the second quarter of 2010 due to the fulfillment of many of the existing pandemic orders from governments and corporations. based on roche reported sales of tamiflu for the three months ended december 31, 2010, we expect tamiflu royalties to be approximately $13.3 million in the first quarter of 2011. we recognize royalties on tamiflu sales by roche in the quarter following the quarter in which tamiflu is sold. as sales of tamiflu decrease, our royalty revenues will decrease and our pre-tax income will decrease disproportionately. any such decrease could be material and could adversely impact our operating results. our results of operations will be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare reforms. legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. in march 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the united states. as a result, we are required to further rebate or discount products reimbursed or paid for by various public payers, including medicaid and other entities eligible to purchase discounted products through the 340b drug pricing program under the public health service act, such as adaps. the discounts, rebates and fees in the legislation that impacted us include: effective january 1, 2010, our minimum base rebate amount owed to medicaid on products reimbursed by medicaid has been increased by 8%, and the discounts or rebates we owe to adaps and other public health service entities which reimburse or purchase our products have also been increased by 8%; effective march 23, 2010, we are required to extend rebates to patients receiving our products through medicaid managed care organizations; effective january 1, 2011, we are required to provide a 50% discount on products sold to patients while they are in the medicare part d donut hole; and effective 2011, we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of a new industry fee (also known as the pharmaceutical excise tax), calculated based on select government sales during the 2010 calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales. for 2011, excluding the impact of the new pharmaceutical excise tax, we estimate that the impact of healthcare reform on product sales will be approximately 5 6% of our u.s. net product sales. 29 table of contents many of the specific determinations necessary to implement the healthcare reform legislation have yet to be decided and communicated by the federal government. for example, we do not know how many or how quickly patients receiving our product under the medicare part d program will reach the donut hole or how details of the pharmaceutical excise tax will be calculated and reflected in our financial results. based on the information that we have to date, we estimate the 2011 impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be between $30-50 million, which will be classified as selling, general and administrative (sg&amp;a) expense. the excise tax is not tax deductible. in calculating the anticipated financial impacts of healthcare reform described above, we made several estimates and assumptions with respect to our expected payer mix and how the reforms will be implemented. further, even though not addressed in the healthcare reform legislation, discussions continue at the federal level on legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for medicare part d pricing. in addition, state medicaid programs could request additional supplemental rebates on our products as a result of the increase in the federal base medicaid rebate. private insurers could also use the enactment of these increased rebates to exert pricing pressure on our products, and to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. in the united states, the european union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. for example, a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. in addition, state adaps, which purchase a significant portion of our hiv products, rely on federal, supplemental federal and state funding to help fund purchases of our products. if federal and state funds are not available in amounts sufficient to support the number of patients that rely on adaps, as one state is currently experiencing, sales of our hiv products could be negatively impacted which would reduce our revenues. further, the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the united states and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the european union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales and profitability. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. in europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many european countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and they expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. recently, many countries in the european union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the european union. for example, in 30 table of contents june 2010, spain imposed an incremental discount on all branded drugs and in august 2010, germany increased the rebate on prescription pharmaceuticals. other countries have recently imposed or could impose similar discounts on our products. as generic drugs come to market, we may face price decreases for our products in some countries in the european union. approximately 44% of our product sales occur outside the united states, and currency fluctuations and hedging expenses may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. because a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increases. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. we use foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. we cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar appreciates significantly against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results of operations will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. additionally, the expenses that we recognize in relation to our hedging activities can also cause our earnings to fluctuate. the level of hedging expenses that we recognize in a particular period is impacted by the changes in interest rate spreads between the foreign currencies that we hedge and the u.s. dollar. our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers, pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price. in 2010, approximately 82% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, cardinal health, inc., mckesson corp. and amerisourcebergen corp. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand. as a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. in addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers orders from us, even if end user demand has not changed. for example, during the second quarter of 2009, the wholesalers increased their inventory levels for atripla and truvada, while inventory levels for viread decreased. in the third quarter of 2009, the wholesalers drew down on their inventory such that inventory levels for atripla and truvada at the end of the third quarter of 2009 were more consistent with the levels held during the first quarter of 2009. as inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see fluctuations in our earnings and a mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our revenues. in addition, the non-retail sector in the united states, which includes government institutions, including state adaps, correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent 31 table of contents in terms of buying patterns and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror patient demand. for example, in the first quarter of 2010, non-retail purchases, driven by certain state adaps, were lower as a percentage of their federal adap fiscal year purchases compared to the first quarters of 2008 and 2009. we believe this decrease was driven by higher purchasing patterns observed during the last three quarters of 2009 as compared to the same period in 2008. the annual grant cycles for federal and state adap funds may cause adap purchasing patterns to not reflect patient demand, and we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our product sales, revenues and earnings in the future. in light of the global economic downturn and budget crises faced by many europe countries, we have observed variations in purchasing patterns induced by cost containment measures in europe. we believe these measures have caused some purchasers to reduce inventory of our products in the distribution channels, and in some cases, even at the patient level, which has decreased our revenues and caused fluctuations in our product sales and earnings. we may continue to see this trend in the future. we face significant competition. we face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from the joint venture established by gsk and pfizer which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with atripla and truvada. for example, lamivudine, marketed by this joint venture, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of emtriva and a component of both atripla and truvada. in may 2010, the compound patent covering epivir (lamivudine) itself expired in the united states and we expect to see generic lamivudine in the united states in the near future. generic lamivudine has been available in spain since march 2010. we expect that generic versions of lamivudine will be launched in other countries within the european union as early as the first quarter of 2011. for hepsera and viread for treatment of chronic hepatitis b, we compete primarily with products produced by gsk, bms and novartis pharmaceuticals corporation (novartis) in the united states, the european union and china. for ambisome, we compete primarily with products produced by merck and pfizer. in addition, we are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the possible entry of one such formulation in greece. these formulations may reduce market demand for ambisome. furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin b is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of ambisome may be negatively impacted by association. letairis competes directly with a product produced by actelion pharmaceuticals us, inc. (actelion) and indirectly with pulmonary arterial hypertension products from united therapeutics corporation and pfizer. ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates for the treatment of chronic angina in the united states. cayston competes with a product marketed by novartis. tamiflu competes with products sold by gsk and generic competitors. in addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our existing products or research programs. these competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs. 32 table of contents if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. as our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. our product letairis, which was approved by the fda in june 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists (eras) which pose specific risks, including serious risks of liver injury and birth defects. because of these risks, letairis is available only through the letairis education and access program (leap), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. as the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of letairis which may decrease demand for the product. if serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda, the european medicines agency and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for atripla, truvada, viread, hepsera, emtriva, ambisome, letairis, ranexa and cayston for currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a timely basis, or at all. further, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. for example, on september 24, 2010, our san dimas manufacturing facility received a warning letter from the fda. see the risk factor entitled manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. on september 27, 2007, president bush signed into law the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, which significantly expanded the fda authority, including, among other things, to: require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product lifecycle, based on new safety information; and require sponsors to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers or 33 table of contents other elements as the fda deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on distribution or use of a product. failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the fda, could result in significant civil monetary penalties and our operating results may be adversely affected. the results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. we are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. for example, in april 2010, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 2b clinical trial of gs 9450 for the treatment of chronic hepatitis c. in addition, we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. if the clinical trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. for example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including elvitegravir, our novel hiv integrase inhibitor for the treatment of hiv infection; and the fixed-dose regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat and truvada for the treatment of hiv in treatment-na&iuml;ve patients; each currently in phase 3 clinical trials that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. these risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain fda and other regulatory body approvals. as a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. if these programs and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. due to our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (cros) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. many important aspects of the services performed for us by the cros are out of our direct control. if there is any dispute or disruption in our relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party cros. if any of our cros processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. these include collaborations with bms for atripla in the united states, europe and canada; roche for tamiflu worldwide; and gsk for ambrisentan in territories outside 34 table of contents of the united states. in some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of truvada, viread, hepsera, emtriva and ambisome. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the risk that: we are unable to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products; disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners; disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline. under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and south korea. in november 2009, we entered into an agreement with gsk that provided gsk with exclusive commercialization rights and registration responsibilities for viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in china. in october 2010, we granted similar rights to gsk in japan and saudi arabia. the success of hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in these territories depends almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv/zeffix. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera or viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in its territories, our potential revenues in these territories may be substantially reduced. in addition, cayston and letairis are distributed through third-party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. the use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will: not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints; not effectively sell or support cayston or letairis; not devote the resources necessary to sell cayston or letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; 35 table of contents not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or cease operations. we also rely on a third party to administer leap, the restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. this third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for letairis by the fda and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third-party specialty pharmacies. failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the fda or decreased letairis sales, either of which would harm our business. further, cayston may only be taken by patients using a specific inhalation device that delivers the drug to the lungs of patients. our ongoing distribution of cayston is entirely reliant upon the manufacturer of that device. for example, the manufacturer could encounter other issues with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device. in addition, the manufacturer may not be able to provide adequate warranty support for the device after it has been distributed to patients. with respect to distribution of the drug and device to patients, we are reliant on the capabilities of specialty pharmacies. for example, the distribution channel for drug and device is complicated and requires coordination. the reimbursement approval processes associated with both drug and device are similarly complex. if the device manufacturer is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales of cayston may be adversely affected. any of the previously described issues may limit the sales of cayston, which would adversely affect our financial results. expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter, and the fda and/or other regulatory agencies may require more clinical testing than we originally anticipated. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. if we have a properly designed and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. as part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the united states and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide 36 table of contents adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for a period of time until a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our products. in addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are unpredictable and expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events. from time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. for example, in 2007, the public patent foundation filed requests for re-examination with the united states patent and trademark office (pto) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in atripla, truvada and viread. the pto granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. in 2008, the pto confirmed the patentability of all four patents. although we were successful in responding to the pto actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in foreign jurisdictions. for example, in april 2008, the brazilian health ministry, citing the u.s. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in brazil. in august 2008, an examiner in the brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in brazil. we then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. in july 2009, the brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. this was the highest level of appeal available to us within the brazilian patent authority. we have filed a civil action in brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the brazilian patent authority. we cannot predict the outcome of this proceeding on our tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patent application. if we are unsuccessful in our appeal to the courts of the decision by the patent authority, the brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of hiv products in brazil. in 2010, the brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our hiv products. we are aware of applications from two generic companies to sell a generic version of viread in brazil. if one or both of these generic applicants are able to compete for this contract for 2011, we would not expect the brazilian government to purchase any of our hiv products in 2011. as another example, the patent office of india initially allowed our claims covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. however, under indian civil procedure, prior to the official grant of the allowed applications, several parties filed legal actions to protest the decision to grant the patents. in august 2009, the indian patent office announced that it had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. we have filed an appeal within the indian patent office intellectual property appellate board on both of these applications. we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. if we are unsuccessful in our appeal of these decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. in the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in india. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in appealing any further negative decisions by the indian patent office in the indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which could reduce the amount of royalties we receive from our indian generic licenses. patents do not cover ranolazine, the active ingredient of ranexa. instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they achieve. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis b, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. 37 table of contents we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions in some countries. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. generic manufacturers have sought and may continue to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (anda), the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. for example, in november 2008, we received notice that teva pharmaceuticals (teva) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. in march 2009, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of atripla. in the notice, teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in december 2008. in january 2010, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of viread. in the notice, teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting viread. in january 2010, we also received notices from teva amending its andas related to atripla and truvada. in the notice related to truvada, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. in the notice related to atripla, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. in march 2010, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the four viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. in march 2010, bms and merck filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz. in june 2010, we received notice that lupin limited (lupin) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of ranexa. in the notice, lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by lupin manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of ranexa. in july 2010, we filed a lawsuit against lupin for infringement of our patents for ranexa. in august 2010, we received notice that sigmapharm labs (sigmapharm) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of hepsera. in the notice, sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by sigmapharm manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of hepsera. in september 2010, we filed a lawsuit against sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for hepsera. one of the patents challenged by sigmapharm is also being challenged by ranbaxy, inc. (ranbaxy) pursuant to a notice received in october 2010. the patent challenged by ranbaxy expires in july 2018. we have the option of filing a lawsuit at any time if we believe that ranbaxy is infringing our patent. in february 2011, we received notice that natco pharma limited (natco) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of tamiflu. in the notice, natco alleges that a patent associated with tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by natco manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of tamiflu. we are currently reviewing the notice letter and have 45 days from the date of receipt to commence a patent infringement lawsuit against natco. 38 table of contents we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. if we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for atripla, truvada, viread, hepsera, ranexa and tamiflu in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the fda could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. for example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of leap, our restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. we, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to current good manufacturing practices (gmp), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the fda and the european medicines agency. similar regulations are in effect in other countries. our third-party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. if we or any of these third-party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. to the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected. our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. for example, in january and february 2010, the fda conducted a routine inspection of our san dimas, california, manufacturing and distribution facility, where we manufacture ambisome and cayston, fill and finish macugen, and package solid dosage form products. at the conclusion of that inspection, the fda issued form 483 inspectional observations stating concerns over: the maintenance of aseptic processing conditions in the manufacturing suite for our ambisome product; environmental maintenance issues in the san dimas warehousing facility; batch sampling; and the timeliness of completion of annual product quality reports. on september 24, 2010, our san dimas manufacturing facility received a warning letter from the fda further detailing the fda concerns over the ambisome manufacturing environment, including control systems and monitoring, procedures to prevent microbiological contamination and preventative cleaning and equipment maintenance. referencing certain viread lots, the letter also stated concerns connected with quality procedures, controls and investigation procedures, and a generalized concern over the effectiveness of the san dimas quality unit in carrying out its responsibilities. 39 table of contents in november and december 2010, the fda re-inspected the san dimas facility. the re-inspection closed with no additional form 483 observations. consequently, we believe that we have addressed the fda concerns as stated in the form 483 observations and the warning letter, but we are awaiting confirmation of acceptance from the fda. unless and until we receive confirmation from the fda that it is satisfied we have corrected outstanding issues, the fda may withhold permission to export ambisome and cayston manufactured at san dimas to certain countries outside the united states and europe. the fda may also withhold approval of pending drug applications listing the san dimas facility. since, as required, we have notified appropriate international regulatory authorities of the letter issuance, it is possible that the letter may impact our ability to supply our aseptic products manufactured at san dimas (ambisome, cayston and macugen) outside the united states. if as a result of a warning letter, we are unable to receive export or regulatory approvals for ambisome or any other products at issue, we may be unable to sell sufficient quantities of these products to meet market demand, which would decrease our revenues and harm our business. as described further in the risk factor entitled we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues below, we manufacture ambisome and fill and finish macugen exclusively at our san dimas facility. we do not believe the warning letter will impact our ability to supply any of the solid dosage form products that we package at the san dimas facility, which include atripla, truvada, viread, emtriva, hepsera, letairis and ranexa. in the event our solid dosage form products were affected, we have alternate sites from which we could supply such products. our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility. aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in cayston, is a mono-bactam gram-negative antibiotic. we manufacture cayston by ourselves in san dimas, california, or through third parties, in multi-product manufacturing facilities. historically, the fda has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the fda will continue to allow this practice. we do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of cayston nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for cayston. if the fda prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of cayston and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product. on september 24, 2010, our san dimas manufacturing facility received a warning letter from the fda. see the risk factor entitled manufacturing problems could delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. it is possible that the warning letter may impact our ability to supply cayston manufactured at san dimas outside of the united states, which would decrease our revenues and harm our business. we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. we need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to manufacture our products. in light of the global economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used in our manufacturing process. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these materials or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. 40 table of contents suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an nda filed with the fda for any product candidate for which we are seeking fda approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. even after a manufacturer is qualified by the fda, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with gmp. manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the fda following initial approval. if, as a result of these inspections, the fda determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable fda regulations and conditions of product approval, the fda may suspend the manufacturing operations. if the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. in addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. in addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we manufacture ambisome and fill and finish macugen exclusively at our facilities in san dimas, california. in the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs. cayston is dependent on two different third-party single-source suppliers. first, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. second, it is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. disruptions or delays with any of these single suppliers could adversely affect our ability to supply cayston, and we cannot be sure that alternative suppliers can be identified in a timely manner, or at all. see the risk factor entitled our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility. in addition, we depend on a single supplier for high quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. we also depend on single suppliers for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of vistide, ranexa and cayston and for the tableting of emtriva and letairis. astellas us llc, which markets lexiscan in the united states, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in the united states and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of lexiscan. problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts. a significant portion of the raw materials and intermediates used to manufacture our hiv products (atripla, truvada, viread and emtriva) are supplied by chinese-based companies. as a result, an international trade dispute between china and the united states or any other actions by the chinese government that would limit or prevent chinese companies from supplying these materials would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our hiv products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. we face credit risks from our european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in greece, italy, portugal and spain are subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. this has resulted and may continue to result in an increase in days sales outstanding due to the average length of time that we have accounts receivable outstanding. our accounts receivable in these countries totaled approximately $965.9 million as of december 31, 2010, of which $428.5 million was more than 120 days past due based on contractual payment terms. as a result of the fiscal and debt crises in these countries, the number of days our invoices are past due has continued to increase in line with that being experienced by other pharmaceutical companies that are also selling directly to hospitals. historically, receivables balances with certain publicly-owned hospitals accumulate over a period of time and are then subsequently settled as large lump sum payments. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these european governments or if 41 table of contents government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. for example, at december 31, 2010, we had $109.1 million due from publicly-owned hospitals in greece. the greek government has offered to settle the majority of their outstanding receivables with zero-coupon bonds, which are expected to trade at a discount to face value, and we have agreed to accept the bonds. as of december 31, 2010, we received bonds to settle receivables totaling $12.8 million. we anticipate receiving the remaining bonds in full by the end of the first quarter of 2011. at december 31, 2010, our allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate to cover exposure related to the expected discount on these bonds. in spain, italy and portugal we are actively pursuing collection of the overdue receivables and taking action as necessary to enforce our legal right to payment. our revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly truvada and viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to 130 countries participating in our gilead access program, or atripla, which merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to hiv infected patients in developing countries under our august 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, we have established partnerships with thirteen indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 95 developing world countries, including india. if generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the united states, europe or other markets outside of these 95 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. for example, in the european union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another country. purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and not reflect the actual consumer demand in any given quarter. these quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price and harm our business. expensive litigation and government investigations may reduce our earnings. in november 2008, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. in march 2009, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of atripla. in the notice, teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in december 2008. in january 2010, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of viread. in the notice, teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting viread. in january 2010, we also received notices from teva amending its andas related to atripla and truvada. in the notice related to truvada, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. in the notice related to atripla, teva challenged four 42 table of contents patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. in march 2010, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the four viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. in march 2010, bms and merck filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz. in june 2010, we received notice that lupin submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of ranexa. in the notice, lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by lupin manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of ranexa. in july 2010, we filed a lawsuit against lupin for infringement of our patents for ranexa. in august 2010, we received notice that sigmapharm submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of hepsera. in the notice, sigmapharm alleges that both of the patens associated with hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by sigmapharm manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of hepsera. in september 2010, we filed a lawsuit against sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for hepsera. one of the patents challenged by sigmapharm is also being challenged by ranbaxy pursuant to a notice received in october 2010. the patent challenged by ranbaxy expires in july 2018. we are considering our options for enforcing our patent. in february 2011, we received notice that natco submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of tamiflu. in the notice, natco alleges that a patent associated with tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by natco manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of tamiflu. we are currently reviewing the notice letter and have 45 days from the date of receipt to commence a patent infringement lawsuit against natco. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing these patents. if we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for atripla, truvada, viread, hepsera, ranexa and tamiflu in the united states could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the fda could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents. the outcome of the lawsuits above, or any other lawsuits that may be brought against us, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business. in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at low cost. alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. for example, in the past, certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. in july 2009, the brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in viread. this was the highest level of appeal available to us within the brazilian patent authority. we have filed a civil action in brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the brazilian patent authority. if we are unable to successfully appeal the decision by the patent authority in the courts, the brazilian government would likely purchase generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which would significantly reduce our sales of hiv products in 43 table of contents brazil. in 2010, the brazilian government purchased approximately $50 million of our hiv products. further, we are aware of applications from two generic companies to sell a generic version of viread in brazil. if one or both of these generic applicants are able to compete for this contract for 2011, we would not expect the brazilian government to purchase any of our hiv products in 2011. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic and h1n1 influenza have generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. for example, the canadian government may allow canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under canada access to medicines regime. furthermore, roche has issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche has granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. in recent years, coverage and availability of cost-effective product liability insurance has decreased, so we may be unable to maintain sufficient coverage for product liabilities that may arise. in addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. if we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and market our products will be adversely impacted. in addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition. business disruptions from natural or man-made disasters may harm our future revenues. our worldwide operations could be subject to business interruptions stemming from natural or man-made disasters for which we may be self-insured. our corporate headquarters and palo alto locations, which together house a majority of our research and development activities, and our san dimas manufacturing facility are located in california, a seismically active region. as we do not carry earthquake insurance and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, our portion of the non-tax deductible pharmaceutical excise tax that we will be required to pay starting in 2011 as a result of the enactment of u.s. healthcare reform legislation, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of r&amp;d spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income. 44 table of contents our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. we are currently under examination by the internal revenue service for the 2005, 2006 and 2007 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. there are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. changes in accounting rules or policies may affect our financial position and results of operations. u.s. generally accepted accounting principles and related implementation guidelines and interpretations can be highly complex and involve subjective judgments. changes in these rules or their interpretation, the adoption of new guidance or the application of existing guidance to changes in our business could significantly affect our financial position and results of operations. if we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. we face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. if we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states, canada and ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and asia pacific. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, 71 table of contents the most significant of which is the euro. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. we enter into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. in general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. the following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2010. we had no foreign currency exchange option contracts outstanding at december 31, 2010. all contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of u.s. dollars per foreign currency. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2010 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars and in thousands): foreign currency exchange forward contracts currency notional amount weighted-average settlement price fair value euro $ 2,763,277 1.33 $ 43,854 british pound 313,380 1.55 2,133 canadian dollar 183,276 0.97 (5,669 ) australian dollar 112,145 0.95 (8,494 ) swiss franc 82,765 0.99 (4,935 ) danish krone 29,532 0.18 690 swedish krone 30,266 0.14 (881 ) norwegian krone 18,871 0.17 (272 ) new zealand dollar 10,035 0.74 (507 ) turkish lira 10,539 0.64 (11 ) polish zloty 435 0.33 (0 ) total $ 3,554,521 $ 25,908 the total notional amount of $3.55 billion and total fair value relating to our net asset of $25.9 million on our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2010 is comparable to the total notional amount of $3.45 billion and total fair value relating to our net liability of $21.5 million on our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2009. interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. 72 table of contents the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2010 (dollars in thousands): years ending december 31, thereafter total total fair value at december 31, 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 assets available-for-sale debt securities $ 1,212,945 $ 1,693,717 $ 1,231,719 $ 74,781 $ 56,436 $ 154,846 $ 4,424,444 $ 4,424,444 average interest rate 0.4% 0.7% 1.1% 1.7% 2.7% 2.7% liabilities convertible senior notes (1) $ 649,987 $ $ 649,867 $ 1,250,000 $ $ 1,250,000 $ 3,799,854 $ 3,971,454 average interest rate 0.50% 0.625% 1.00% 1.625% (1) in april 2006, we issued convertible senior notes due in 2011 (2011 notes) and 2013 (2013 notes) in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.50% and 0.625% for the 2011 notes and 2013 notes, respectively, and may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain circumstances. in july 2010, we issued convertible senior notes due in 2014 (2014 notes) and 2016 (2016 notes) in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 1.00% and 1.625% for the 2014 notes and 2016 notes, respectively, and may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain circumstances. credit risk as of december 31, 2010, we held approximately $70.8 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities. our auction rate securities comprised approximately 1% of our total cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of december 31, 2010. in 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for our auction rate securities for which the underlying assets are comprised of student loans. most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated aaa, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy, supported by the federal government as part of the federal family education loan program and over-collateralized. our auction rate securities reset every seven to 14 days with maturity dates ranging from 2025 through 2040 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.43% to 1.19%. as of december 31, 2010, our auction rate securities continued to earn interest. if auctions continue to fail for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. however, based on our total cash and marketable securities position, our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we believe that we will be able to hold these securities until there is a recovery in the auction market and the related securities, which may be at final maturity. as a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital. in light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continue to review our cash equivalents and marketable securities carefully and strive to invest prudently. we believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity, has helped protect us from many of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other strategic opportunities. we are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales. our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2010 was $1.62 billion, compared to $1.39 billion at december 31, 2009. the majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the united states and europe. to date, 73 table of contents we have not experienced significant losses with respect to the collection of our accounts receivable. we believe that our allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate at december 31, 2010.risk factors in evaluating our business, you should carefully consider the following risks in addition to the other information in this annual report on form 10-k. a manifestation of any of the following risks could materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. we note these factors for investors as permitted by the private securities litigation reform act of 1995. it is not possible to predict or identify all such factors and, therefore, you should not consider the following risks to be a complete statement of all the potential risks or uncertainties that we face. the public announcement of data from clinical studies evaluating gs-7977 in hcv-infected patients is likely to cause significant volatility in our stock price. during 2012, we expect to receive a significant amount of data from clinical trials evaluating gs-7977, an investigational nucleotide analog we acquired through our purchase of pharmasset, in hcv-infected individuals across genotypes. we are currently conducting phase 2 studies in genotype 1 infected hcv patients to determine the efficacy of gs-7977 plus ribavirin in this population. results from these studies will be available over the next several months. we expect the first data evaluating gs-7977 plus ribavirin for 12 weeks in genotype 1 treatment-na&iuml;ve patients from an arm of the quantum study with 25 patients will be available at the end of the first quarter of 2012. we expect that this will be followed in the second quarter by data from an arm of our electron study involving 25 treatment-na&iuml;ve patients treated for 12 weeks and, early in the third quarter, data on gs-7977 and ribavirin treatment for 24 weeks from an arm of the quantum study will become available. on february 17, 2012, we announced that the majority of hcv genotype 1 patients with a prior null response to an interferon-containing regimen enrolled in our ongoing electron study experienced viral relapse within four weeks of completing 12 weeks of treatment with gs-7977 plus ribavirin. ten patients were randomized to this arm of the electron study and data were available for eight of the ten patients at the time of the announcement. among these eight patients, six experienced viral relapse. two patients had not relapsed; however, they had only reached the two week post-treatment time point. these data indicate that treatment of genotype 1 patients classified as null responders with gs-7977 plus ribavirin for 12 weeks will not be sufficient to cure their disease. in addition to the phase 2 studies described above, we recently began enrolling patients in a phase 3 study evaluating gs-7977 and ribavirin in genotype 2 and 3 infected patients. a second phase 3 study of genotype 2 and 3 patients is scheduled to begin enrolling in the next few weeks. if data from any of the phase 2 or 3 studies indicate that a smaller than anticipated number of patients achieved a sustained viral response at 4, 12 or 24 weeks post-treatment, our stock price may decline significantly. such results could also delay the approval of gs-7977 for the treatment of genotype 1, 2 and/or 3 patients, which could delay and/or reduce revenues expected from the sale of gs-7977. developing drugs for the treatment of hcv is a competitive field and a significant number of drugs are under development. depending on the length of any delay in our development of gs-7977, other companies who are developing competitive compounds in hcv may be able to progress their development timelines and potentially bring compounds to market before gs-7977 or shortly thereafter. a substantial portion of our revenues is derived from sales of our hiv products, particularly atripla and truvada. if we are unable to maintain or continue increasing sales of these products, our results of operations may be adversely affected. we are currently dependent on sales of our products for the treatment of hiv infection, particularly atripla and truvada, to support our existing operations. our hiv products contain tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and/or emtricitabine, which belong to the nucleoside class of antiviral therapeutics. were the treatment paradigm for hiv to change, causing nucleoside-based therapeutics to fall out of favor, or if we were unable to maintain or continue increasing our hiv product sales, our results of operations would likely suffer and we would likely need 30 table of contents to scale back our operations, including our spending on research and development (r&amp;d) efforts. for the year ended december 31, 2011, atripla and truvada product sales together were $6.10 billion, or 73% of our total revenues. we may not be able to sustain or increase the growth rate of sales of our hiv products, especially atripla and truvada, for any number of reasons including, but not limited to, the following: as our hiv products are used over a longer period of time in many patients and in combination with other products, and additional studies are conducted, new issues with respect to safety, resistance and interactions with other drugs may arise, which could cause us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels, narrow our approved indications or halt sales of a product, each of which could reduce our revenues. as our hiv products mature, private insurers and government payers often reduce the amount they will reimburse patients for these products, which increases pressure on us to reduce prices. a large part of the market for our hiv products consists of patients who are already taking other hiv drugs. if we are not successful in encouraging physicians to change patients regimens to include our hiv products, the sales of our hiv products will be limited. as generic hiv products are introduced into major markets, our ability to maintain pricing and market share may be affected. if we fail to commercialize new products or expand the indications for existing products, our prospects for future revenues may be adversely affected. if we do not introduce new products to market or increase sales of our existing products, we will not be able to increase or maintain our total revenues and continue to expand our r&amp;d efforts. drug development is inherently risky and many product candidates fail during the drug development process. for example, in january 2011, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 3 clinical trial of ambrisentan in patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (ipf). in april 2011, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 3 clinical trial of aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cystic fibrosis (cf) in patients with burkholderia spp . in addition, our marketing applications for our single-tablet quad regimen of elvitegravir, cobicistat, tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and emtricitabine, for the treatment of hiv in treatment-na&iuml;ve patients may not be approved by the fda or european medicines agency. further, even if marketing approval is granted, there may be significant limitations on its use. further, we may be unable to file our marketing applications for elvitegravir and cobicistat in the currently anticipated timelines and marketing approval for the products may not be granted. our results of operations will be adversely affected by current and potential future healthcare reforms. legislative and regulatory changes to government prescription drug procurement and reimbursement programs occur relatively frequently in the united states and foreign jurisdictions. in march 2010, healthcare reform legislation was adopted in the united states. as a result, we are required to further rebate or discount products reimbursed or paid for by various public payers, including medicaid and other entities eligible to purchase discounted products through the 340b drug pricing program under the public health service act, such as aids drug assistance programs (adaps). the discounts, rebates and fees in the legislation that impacted us include: our minimum base rebate amount owed to medicaid on products reimbursed by medicaid has been increased by 8%, and the discounts or rebates we owe to adaps and other public health service entities which reimburse or purchase our products have also been increased by 8%; we are required to extend rebates to patients receiving our products through medicaid managed care organizations; we are required to provide a 50% discount on products sold to patients while they are in the medicare part d donut hole; and 31 table of contents we, along with other pharmaceutical manufacturers of branded drug products, are required to pay a portion of a new industry fee (also known as the pharmaceutical excise tax) of $2.5 billion for 2011, calculated based on select government sales during the 2009 calendar year as a percentage of total industry government sales. the amount of the industry fee imposed on the pharmaceutical industry as a whole will increase to $2.8 billion in 2012, with additional increases over the next several years to a peak of $4.1 billion per year in 2018, and then decrease to $2.8 billion in 2019 and thereafter. as the amount of the industry fee increases, our product sales increase and drug patents expire on major drugs, such as lipitor, we expect our portion of the excise tax to increase as well. we estimate the 2012 impact of the pharmaceutical excise tax to be approximately $80-$100 million, compared to approximately $50 million in 2011. the excise tax is not tax deductible. further, even though not addressed in the healthcare reform legislation, discussions continue at the federal level on legislation that would either allow or require the federal government to directly negotiate price concessions from pharmaceutical manufacturers or set minimum requirements for medicare part d pricing. in addition, state medicaid programs could request additional supplemental rebates on our products as a result of the increase in the federal base medicaid rebate. private insurers could also use the enactment of these increased rebates to exert pricing pressure on our products, and to the extent that private insurers or managed care programs follow medicaid coverage and payment developments, the adverse effects may be magnified by private insurers adopting lower payment schedules. our existing products are subject to reimbursement from government agencies and other third parties. pharmaceutical pricing and reimbursement pressures may reduce profitability. successful commercialization of our products depends, in part, on the availability of governmental and third-party payer reimbursement for the cost of such products and related treatments. government health administration authorities, private health insurers and other organizations generally provide reimbursement. in the united states, the european union and other significant or potentially significant markets for our products and product candidates, government authorities and third-party payers are increasingly attempting to limit or regulate the price of medical products and services, particularly for new and innovative products and therapies, which has resulted in lower average selling prices. a significant portion of our sales of the majority of our products are subject to significant discounts from list price and rebate obligations. in the united states, state adaps, which purchase a significant portion of our hiv products, rely on federal, supplemental federal and state funding to help fund purchases of our products. given the current economic downturn, we have experienced a shift in our payer mix as patients previously covered by private insurance move to public reimbursement programs that require rebates or discounts from us or as patients previously covered by one public reimbursement program move to another public reimbursement program that requires greater rebates or discounts from us. as a result of this shift, revenue growth may be lower than prescription growth. if federal and state funds are not available in amounts sufficient to support the number of patients that rely on adaps, sales of our hiv products could be negatively impacted which would reduce our revenues. for example, during the first quarter of 2011, the state budget crisis in florida led to a temporary movement of patients who were previously covered by florida adap into industry-supported patient assistance programs. due to the insufficiency of federal and state funds and as many states have reduced eligibility criteria, we have also seen and may continue to see an increase in the number of patients on state adap wait lists. until these patients are enrolled in adap, they generally receive product from industry-supported patient assistance programs or are unable to access treatment. the increased emphasis on managed healthcare in the united states and on country and regional pricing and reimbursement controls in the european union will put additional pressure on product pricing, reimbursement and usage, which may adversely affect our product sales and profitability. these pressures can arise from rules and practices of managed care groups, judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to medicare, medicaid and healthcare reform, pharmaceutical reimbursement policies and pricing in general. 32 table of contents in europe, the success of our commercialized products, and any other product candidates we may develop, will depend largely on obtaining and maintaining government reimbursement, because in many european countries patients are unlikely to use prescription drugs that are not reimbursed by their governments. in addition, negotiating prices with governmental authorities can delay commercialization by 12 months or more. reimbursement policies may adversely affect our ability to sell our products on a profitable basis. in many international markets, governments control the prices of prescription pharmaceuticals, including through the implementation of reference pricing, price cuts, rebates, revenue-related taxes and profit control, and they expect prices of prescription pharmaceuticals to decline over the life of the product or as volumes increase. recently, many countries in the european union have increased the amount of discounts required on our products, and these efforts could continue as countries attempt to manage healthcare expenditures, especially in light of the severe fiscal and debt crises experienced by many countries in the european union. for example, in june 2010, spain imposed an incremental discount on all branded drugs and in august 2010, germany increased the rebate on prescription pharmaceuticals. as generic drugs come to market, we may face price decreases for our products in some countries in the european union. approximately 44% of our product sales occur outside the united states, and currency fluctuations and hedging expenses may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. because a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies, primarily the euro, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these foreign currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative value of such sales increases. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. we use foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to hedge a percentage of our forecasted international sales, primarily those denominated in the euro. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. we cannot predict future fluctuations in the foreign currency exchange rate of the u.s. dollar. if the u.s. dollar appreciates significantly against certain currencies and our hedging program does not sufficiently offset the effects of such appreciation, our results of operations will be adversely affected and our stock price may decline. additionally, the expenses that we recognize in relation to our hedging activities can also cause our earnings to fluctuate. the level of hedging expenses that we recognize in a particular period is impacted by the changes in interest rate spreads between the foreign currencies that we hedge and the u.s. dollar. our inability to accurately estimate demand for our products, as well as sales fluctuations as a result of inventory levels held by wholesalers, pharmacies and non-retail customers make it difficult for us to accurately forecast sales and may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our financial results and our stock price. in 2011, approximately 79% of our product sales in the united states were to three wholesalers, cardinal health, inc., mckesson corp. and amerisourcebergen corp. the u.s. wholesalers with whom we have entered into inventory management agreements make estimates to determine end user demand and may not be completely effective in matching their inventory levels to actual end user demand. as a result, changes in inventory levels held by those wholesalers can cause our operating results to fluctuate unexpectedly if our sales to these wholesalers do not match end user demand. in addition, inventory is held at retail pharmacies and other non-wholesale locations with whom we have no inventory management agreements and no control over buying patterns. adverse changes in economic conditions or other factors may cause retail pharmacies to reduce their 33 table of contents inventories of our products, which would reduce their orders from wholesalers and, consequently, the wholesalers orders from us, even if end user demand has not changed. for example, during the fourth quarter of 2010, our wholesalers increased their inventory levels for our antiviral products. in the first quarter of 2011, our wholesalers drew down on their inventory such that inventory levels for our antiviral products moved to the lower end of the contractual boundaries set by our inventory management agreements. as inventory in the distribution channel fluctuates from quarter to quarter, we may continue to see fluctuations in our earnings and a mismatch between prescription demand for our products and our revenues. in addition, the non-retail sector in the united states, which includes government institutions, including state adaps, correctional facilities and large health maintenance organizations, tends to be even less consistent in terms of buying patterns and often causes quarter over quarter fluctuations that do not necessarily mirror patient demand. for example, in the first quarter of 2011, non-retail purchases, driven by certain state adaps, were lower as a percentage of their federal adap fiscal year purchases compared to the first quarters of 2009 and 2010. we believe this decrease was driven by uncertainty regarding the amount and availability of the federal adap budget for 2011-2012 and the lack of sufficient state funding. in the second quarter of 2011, only a portion of the full year federal budget was provided to the adaps, which resulted in conservative purchasing by individual state adaps during the quarter. federal and state budget pressures, as well as the annual grant cycles for federal and state adap funds, may cause adap purchasing patterns to not reflect patient demand. as a result, we expect to continue to experience fluctuations in the purchasing patterns of our non-retail customers which may result in fluctuations in our product sales, revenues and earnings in the future. in light of the global economic downturn and budget crises faced by many european countries, we have observed variations in purchasing patterns induced by cost containment measures in europe. we believe these measures have caused some purchasers to reduce inventory of our products in the distribution channels, and in some cases, even at the patient level, which has decreased our revenues and caused fluctuations in our product sales and earnings. we may continue to see this trend in the future. we face significant competition. we face significant competition from large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, most of whom have substantially greater resources than we do. in addition, our competitors have more products and have operated in the fields in which we compete for longer than we have. our hiv products compete primarily with products from the joint venture established by glaxosmithkline inc. (gsk) and pfizer inc. (pfizer) which markets fixed-dose combination products that compete with atripla, truvada and complera/eviplera. for example, lamivudine, marketed by this joint venture, is competitive with emtricitabine, the active pharmaceutical ingredient of emtriva and a component of atripla, truvada and complera/eviplera. we also face competition from generic hiv products. in may 2010, the compound patent covering epivir (lamivudine) itself expired in the united states, and generic lamivudine is now available in the united states, spain and portugal, and recently received pricing approval in italy. we expect that generic versions of lamivudine will be launched in other countries within the european union. in may 2011, a generic version of combivir (lamivudine and zidovudine) was approved and was recently launched in the united states. in addition, in late 2011, generic tenofovir also became available in turkey. for viread and hepsera for treatment of chronic hepatitis b, we compete primarily with products produced by gsk, bristol-myers squibb company (bms) and novartis pharmaceuticals corporation (novartis) in the united states, the european union and china. for ambisome, we compete primarily with products produced by merck &amp; co., inc. (merck) and pfizer. in addition, we are aware of at least two lipid formulations that claim similarity to ambisome becoming available outside of the united states, including the possible entry of one such formulation in greece. these formulations may reduce market demand for ambisome. furthermore, the manufacture of lipid formulations of amphotericin b is very complex and if any of these formulations are found to be unsafe, sales of ambisome may be negatively impacted by association. letairis competes directly with a 34 table of contents product produced by actelion pharmaceuticals us, inc. and indirectly with pulmonary arterial hypertension products from united therapeutics corporation and pfizer. ranexa competes predominantly with generic compounds from three distinct classes of drugs, beta-blockers, calcium channel blockers and long-acting nitrates for the treatment of chronic angina in the united states. cayston competes with a product marketed by novartis. tamiflu competes with products sold by gsk and generic competitors. in addition, a number of companies are pursuing the development of technologies which are competitive with our existing products or research programs. these competing companies include specialized pharmaceutical firms and large pharmaceutical companies acting either independently or together with other pharmaceutical companies. furthermore, academic institutions, government agencies and other public and private organizations conducting research may seek patent protection and may establish collaborative arrangements for competitive products or programs. if significant safety issues arise for our marketed products or our product candidates, our future sales may be reduced, which would adversely affect our results of operations. the data supporting the marketing approvals for our products and forming the basis for the safety warnings in our product labels were obtained in controlled clinical trials of limited duration and, in some cases, from post-approval use. as our products are used over longer periods of time by many patients with underlying health problems, taking numerous other medicines, we expect to continue to find new issues such as safety, resistance or drug interaction issues, which may require us to provide additional warnings or contraindications on our labels or narrow our approved indications, each of which could reduce the market acceptance of these products. our product letairis, which was approved by the fda in june 2007, is a member of a class of compounds called endothelin receptor antagonists (eras) which pose specific risks, including serious risks of birth defects. because of these risks, letairis is available only through the letairis education and access program (leap), a restricted distribution program intended to help physicians and patients learn about the risks associated with the product and assure appropriate use of the product. as the product is used by additional patients, we may discover new risks associated with letairis which may result in changes to the distribution program and additional restrictions on the use of letairis which may decrease demand for the product. if serious safety, resistance or drug interaction issues arise with our marketed products, sales of these products could be limited or halted by us or by regulatory authorities and our results of operations would be adversely affected. our operations depend on compliance with complex fda and comparable international regulations. failure to obtain broad approvals on a timely basis or to maintain compliance could delay or halt commercialization of our products. the products we develop must be approved for marketing and sale by regulatory authorities and, once approved, are subject to extensive regulation by the fda, the european medicines agency and comparable regulatory agencies in other countries. we are continuing clinical trials for atripla, truvada, viread, hepsera, complera/eviplera, emtriva, ambisome, letairis, ranexa and cayston for currently approved and additional uses. we anticipate that we will file for marketing approval in additional countries and for additional indications and products over the next several years. these products may fail to receive such marketing approvals on a timely basis, or at all. further, our marketed products and how we manufacture and sell these products are subject to extensive regulation and review. discovery of previously unknown problems with our marketed products or problems with our manufacturing or promotional activities may result in restrictions on our products, including withdrawal of the products from the market. if we fail to comply with applicable regulatory requirements, including those related to promotion and manufacturing, we could be subject to penalties including fines, suspensions of regulatory approvals, product recalls, seizure of products and criminal prosecution. 35 table of contents on september 27, 2007, president bush signed into law the food and drug administration amendments act of 2007, which significantly expanded the fda authority, including, among other things, to: require sponsors of marketed products to conduct post-approval clinical studies to assess a known serious risk, signals of serious risk or to identify an unexpected serious risk; mandate labeling changes to products, at any point in a product lifecycle, based on new safety information; and require sponsors to implement a risk evaluation and mitigation strategy for a product which could include a medication guide, patient package insert, a communication plan to healthcare providers or other elements as the fda deems are necessary to assure safe use of the drug, which could include imposing certain restrictions on the distribution or use of a product. failure to comply with these or other requirements, if imposed on a sponsor by the fda, could result in significant civil monetary penalties and our operating results may be adversely affected. the results and anticipated timelines of our clinical trials are uncertain and may not support continued development of a product pipeline, which would adversely affect our prospects for future revenue growth. we are required to demonstrate the safety and efficacy of products that we develop for each intended use through extensive preclinical studies and clinical trials. the results from preclinical and early clinical studies do not always accurately predict results in later, large-scale clinical trials. even successfully completed large-scale clinical trials may not result in marketable products. if any of our product candidates fails to achieve its primary endpoint in clinical trials, if safety issues arise or if the results from our clinical trials are otherwise inadequate to support regulatory approval of our product candidates, commercialization of that product candidate could be delayed or halted. for example, in january 2011, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 3 clinical trial of ambrisentan in patients with ipf and, in april 2011, we announced our decision to terminate our phase 3 clinical trial of aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of cf in patients with burkholderia spp . in addition, we may also face challenges in clinical trial protocol design. if the clinical trials for any of the product candidates in our pipeline are delayed or terminated, our prospects for future revenue growth would be adversely impacted. for example, we face numerous risks and uncertainties with our product candidates, including gs-7977 for the treatment of hepatitis c, aztreonam for inhalation solution for the treatment of bronchiectasis and ranolazine for the treatment of incomplete revascularization post-percutaneous coronary intervention and type ii diabetes, each currently in phase 3 clinical trials, that could prevent completion of development of these product candidates. these risks include our ability to enroll patients in clinical trials, the possibility of unfavorable results of our clinical trials, the need to modify or delay our clinical trials or to perform additional trials and the risk of failing to obtain fda and other regulatory body approvals. as a result, our product candidates may never be successfully commercialized. further, we may make a strategic decision to discontinue development of our product candidates if, for example, we believe commercialization will be difficult relative to other opportunities in our pipeline. if these programs and others in our pipeline cannot be completed on a timely basis or at all, then our prospects for future revenue growth may be adversely impacted. in addition, clinical trials involving our commercial products could raise new safety issues for our existing products, which could in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. due to our reliance on third-party contract research organizations to conduct our clinical trials, we are unable to directly control the timing, conduct, expense and quality of our clinical trials. we extensively outsource our clinical trial activities and usually perform only a small portion of the start-up activities in-house. we rely on independent third-party contract research organizations (cros) to perform most of our clinical studies, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, program management and bioanalytical analysis. many important aspects of the services performed for us by the cros are out of our direct control. if there is any dispute or disruption in our 36 table of contents relationship with our cros, our clinical trials may be delayed. moreover, in our regulatory submissions, we rely on the quality and validity of the clinical work performed by third-party cros. if any of our cros processes, methodologies or results were determined to be invalid or inadequate, our own clinical data and results and related regulatory approvals could be adversely impacted. we depend on relationships with other companies for sales and marketing performance, development and commercialization of product candidates and revenues. failure to maintain these relationships, poor performance by these companies or disputes with these companies could negatively impact our business. we rely on a number of significant collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for our sales and marketing performance in certain territories. these include collaborations with bms for atripla in the united states, europe and canada; f. hoffmann-la roche ltd. (together with hoffmann-la roche inc., roche) for tamiflu worldwide; and gsk for ambrisentan in territories outside of the united states. in some countries, we rely on international distributors for sales of truvada, viread, hepsera, emtriva and ambisome. some of these relationships also involve the clinical development of these products by our partners. reliance on collaborative relationships poses a number of risks, including the risk that: we are unable to control the resources our corporate partners devote to our programs or products; disputes may arise with respect to the ownership of rights to technology developed with our corporate partners; disagreements with our corporate partners could cause delays in, or termination of, the research, development or commercialization of product candidates or result in litigation or arbitration; contracts with our corporate partners may fail to provide significant protection or may fail to be effectively enforced if one of these partners fails to perform; our corporate partners have considerable discretion in electing whether to pursue the development of any additional products and may pursue alternative technologies or products either on their own or in collaboration with our competitors; our corporate partners with marketing rights may choose to pursue competing technologies or to devote fewer resources to the marketing of our products than they do to products of their own development; and our distributors and our corporate partners may be unable to pay us, particularly in light of current economic conditions. given these risks, there is a great deal of uncertainty regarding the success of our current and future collaborative efforts. if these efforts fail, our product development or commercialization of new products could be delayed or revenues from products could decline. we also rely on collaborative relationships with major pharmaceutical companies for development and commercialization of certain product candidates. gilead (as successor to pharmasset, inc.) is a party to a collaboration agreement with roche to develop psi-6130 and its prodrugs for the treatment of chronic hcv infection. the collaborative research efforts under this agreement ended on december 31, 2006. roche later asked pharmasset to consider whether roche may have contributed to the inventorship of gs-7977 and whether pharmasset has complied with the confidentiality provisions of the collaboration agreement. pharmasset advised us that it carefully considered the issues raised by roche and that it believed any such issues are without merit. we have also considered these issues and reached the same conclusion. however, if roche were to successfully assert that it contributed to the inventorship of gs-7977 and either independently develop gs-7977 or file an abbreviated new drug application (anda) to market gs-7977, roche could at some point in the future market that product and begin competing against us prior to the expiration of our patents for gs-7977. such marketing activity by roche could materially reduce the revenues we expect to receive from the sale of gs-7977, which could adversely affect our results of operations. 37 table of contents under our april 2002 licensing agreement with gsk, we gave gsk the right to control clinical and regulatory development and commercialization of hepsera in territories in asia, africa and latin america. these include major markets for hepsera, such as china, japan, taiwan and south korea. in november 2009, we entered into an agreement with gsk that provided gsk with exclusive commercialization rights and registration responsibilities for viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in china. in october 2010, we granted similar rights to gsk in japan and saudi arabia. the success of hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in these territories depends almost entirely on the efforts of gsk. in this regard, gsk promotes epivir-hbv/zeffix, a product that competes with hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b. consequently, gsk marketing strategy for hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b may be influenced by its promotion of epivir-hbv/zeffix. we receive royalties from gsk equal to a percentage of gsk net sales of hepsera and viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b as well as net sales of gsk epivir-hbv/zeffix. if gsk fails to devote sufficient resources to, or does not succeed in developing or commercializing hepsera or viread for the treatment of chronic hepatitis b in its territories, our potential revenues in these territories may be substantially reduced. in addition, cayston and letairis are distributed through third-party specialty pharmacies, which are pharmacies specializing in the dispensing of medications for complex or chronic conditions that may require a high level of patient education and ongoing counseling. the use of specialty pharmacies requires significant coordination with our sales and marketing, medical affairs, regulatory affairs, legal and finance organizations and involves risks, including but not limited to risks that these specialty pharmacies will: not provide us with accurate or timely information regarding their inventories, patient data or safety complaints; not effectively sell or support cayston or letairis; not devote the resources necessary to sell cayston or letairis in the volumes and within the time frames that we expect; not be able to satisfy their financial obligations to us or others; or cease operations. we also rely on a third party to administer leap, the restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. this third party provides information and education to prescribers and patients on the risks of letairis, confirms insurance coverage and investigates alternative sources of reimbursement or assistance, ensures fulfillment of the risk management requirements mandated for letairis by the fda and coordinates and controls dispensing to patients through the third-party specialty pharmacies. failure of this third party or the specialty pharmacies that distribute letairis to perform as expected may result in regulatory action from the fda or decreased letairis sales, either of which would harm our business. further, cayston may only be taken by patients using a specific inhalation device that delivers the drug to the lungs of patients. our ongoing distribution of cayston is entirely reliant upon the manufacturer of that device. for example, the manufacturer could encounter other issues with regulatory agencies related to the device or be unable to supply sufficient quantities of this device. in addition, the manufacturer may not be able to provide adequate warranty support for the device after it has been distributed to patients. with respect to distribution of the drug and device to patients, we are reliant on the capabilities of specialty pharmacies. for example, the distribution channel for drug and device is complicated and requires coordination. the reimbursement approval processes associated with both drug and device are similarly complex. if the device manufacturer is unable to obtain reimbursement approval or receives approval at a lower-than-expected price, sales of cayston may be adversely affected. any of the previously described issues may limit the sales of cayston, which would adversely affect our financial results. 38 table of contents expenses associated with clinical trials may cause our earnings to fluctuate, which could adversely affect our stock price. the clinical trials required for regulatory approval of our products, as well as clinical trials we are required to conduct after approval, are very expensive. it is difficult to accurately predict or control the amount or timing of these expenses from quarter to quarter, and the fda and/or other regulatory agencies may require more clinical testing than we originally anticipated. uneven and unexpected spending on these programs may cause our operating results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter, and our stock price may decline. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to protect our patents and other intellectual property rights both domestically and internationally. we may not be able to obtain effective patents to protect our technologies from use by competitors and patents of other companies could require us to stop using or pay for the use of required technology. patents and other proprietary rights are very important to our business. our success will depend to a significant degree on our ability to: obtain patents and licenses to patent rights; preserve trade secrets; and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. if we have a properly drafted and enforceable patent, it can be more difficult for our competitors to use our technology to create competitive products and more difficult for our competitors to obtain a patent that prevents us from using technology we create. as part of our business strategy, we actively seek patent protection both in the united states and internationally and file additional patent applications, when appropriate, to cover improvements in our compounds, products and technology. we have a number of u.s. and foreign patents, patent applications and rights to patents related to our compounds, products and technology, but we cannot be certain that issued patents will be enforceable or provide adequate protection or that pending patent applications will result in issued patents. patent applications are confidential for a period of time before a patent is issued. as a result, we may not know if our competitors filed patent applications for technology covered by our pending applications or if we were the first to invent the technology that is the subject of our patent applications. competitors may have filed patent applications or received patents and may obtain additional patents and proprietary rights that block or compete with our products. in addition, if competitors file patent applications covering our technology, we may have to participate in interference proceedings or litigation to determine the right to a patent. litigation and interference proceedings are unpredictable and expensive, such that, even if we are ultimately successful, our results of operations may be adversely affected by such events. from time to time, certain individuals or entities may challenge our patents. for example, in 2007, the public patent foundation filed requests for re-examination with the united states patent and trademark office (pto) challenging four of our patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, which is an active ingredient in atripla, truvada and viread. the pto granted these requests and issued non-final rejections for the four patents, which is a step common in a proceeding to initiate the re-examination process. in 2008, the pto confirmed the patentability of all four patents. although we were successful in responding to the pto actions in the instance above, similar organizations may still challenge our patents in u.s. and foreign jurisdictions. for example, in april 2008, the brazilian health ministry, citing the u.s. patent re-examination proceedings as grounds for rejection, requested that the brazilian patent authority issue a decision that is not supportive of our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in brazil. in august 2008, an examiner in the brazilian patent authority issued a final rejection of our fumarate salt patent application, the only patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate we have filed in brazil. we 39 table of contents then filed an appeal within the patent authority responding to the questions raised in the rejection. in july 2009, the brazilian patent authority again rejected the application. this was the highest level of appeal available to us within the brazilian patent authority. we have filed a civil action in brazilian federal court to further appeal the action of the brazilian patent authority. because we do not currently have a patent in brazil, in 2011 the brazilian government purchased all of its supply of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate from generic manufacturers. as a result, we did not sell any of our hiv products in brazil in 2011. as another example, under indian civil procedure, several parties filed oppositions to the grant of our patent applications covering tenofovir disoproxil and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. in august 2009, the indian patent office announced that it had decided these actions against us and would not therefore allow the patents to be granted. we have filed an appeal within the indian patent office intellectual property appellate board on both of these applications. we cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings. if we are unsuccessful in our appeal of these decisions, any further appeals will have to be pursued in the indian court system, and may ultimately prove unsuccessful. in the meantime, any competitor is able to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate in india. in addition, if we are unsuccessful in appealing any further negative decisions by the indian patent office in the indian courts, these competitors would be able to continue to sell generic tenofovir disoproxil fumarate. patents do not cover the ranolazine compound, the active ingredient of ranexa. instead, when it was discovered that only a sustained release formulation of ranolazine would achieve therapeutic plasma levels, patents were obtained on those formulations and the characteristic plasma levels they achieve. patents do not cover the active ingredients in ambisome. in addition, we do not have patent filings in china or certain other asian countries covering all forms of adefovir dipivoxil, the active ingredient in hepsera. asia is a major market for therapies for hepatitis b, the indication for which hepsera has been developed. we may obtain patents for certain products many years before marketing approval is obtained for those products. because patents have a limited life, which may begin to run prior to the commercial sale of the related product, the commercial value of the patent may be limited. however, we may be able to apply for patent term extensions in some countries. as part of the approval process of some of our products, the fda granted an exclusivity period during which other manufacturers applications for approval of generic versions of our product will not be granted. generic manufacturers often wait to challenge the patents protecting products that have been granted exclusivity until one year prior to the end of the exclusivity period. from time to time, we have received notices from manufacturers indicating that they intend to import chemical intermediates possibly for use in making our products. generic manufacturers have sought and may continue to seek fda approval for a similar or identical drug through an abbreviated new drug application (anda), the application form typically used by manufacturers seeking approval of a generic drug. for example, in november 2008, we received notice that teva pharmaceuticals (teva) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. in march 2009, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of atripla. in the notice, teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in december 2008. in january 2010, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of viread. in the notice, teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting viread. in january 2010, we also received notices from teva amending its andas related to atripla and truvada. in the notice related to truvada, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. in the notice related to atripla, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents 40 table of contents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. in march 2010, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the four viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. in march 2010, bms and merck filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz. in june 2010, we received notice that lupin limited (lupin) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of ranexa. in the notice, lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by lupin manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of ranexa. in july 2010, we filed a lawsuit against lupin for infringement of our patents for ranexa. in august 2010, we received notice that sigmapharm labs (sigmapharm) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of hepsera. in the notice, sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by sigmapharm manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of hepsera. in september 2010, we filed a lawsuit against sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for hepsera. one of the patents challenged by sigmapharm is also being challenged by ranbaxy, inc. (ranbaxy) pursuant to a notice received in october 2010. the patent challenged by ranbaxy expires in july 2018. we have the option of filing a lawsuit at any time if we believe that ranbaxy is infringing our patent. in february 2011, we received notice that natco pharma limited (natco) submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of tamiflu. in the notice, natco alleges that one of the patents associated with tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by natco manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of tamiflu. in march 2011, we and roche filed a lawsuit against natco for infringement of the patent associated with tamiflu. in november 2011, we received notice that teva submitted an abbreviated new drug submission (ands) to the canadian ministry of health requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of our truvada product. in the notice, teva alleges that three of the patents associated with truvada are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in january 2012, we filed a lawsuit against teva seeking an order of prohibition against approval of this ands. in december 2011, we received notice that teva submitted an ands to the canadian ministry of health requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of our atripla product. in the notice, teva alleges that three of our patents associated with atripla and two of merck patents associated with atripla are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of atripla. in february 2012, we filed a lawsuit against teva seeking an order of prohibition against approval of this ands. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing and defending these patents. if we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for atripla, truvada, viread, hepsera, ranexa and tamiflu in the united states or atripla and truvada in canada could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the fda could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents. our success depends in large part on our ability to operate without infringing upon the patents or other proprietary rights of third parties. if we infringe the patents of others, we may be prevented from commercializing products or may be required to obtain licenses from these third parties. we may not be able to obtain alternative technologies or any required license on reasonable terms or at all. if we fail to obtain these licenses or alternative technologies, we may be unable to develop or commercialize some or all of our products. for example, we are aware of a body of patents that may relate to our operation of leap, our restricted distribution program designed to support letairis. 41 table of contents we own patents that claim gs-7977 as a chemical entity and its metabolites. however, the existence of issued patents does not guarantee our right to practice the patented technology or commercialize the patented product. third parties may have or obtain rights to patents which they may claim could be used to prevent or attempt to prevent us from commercializing the patented product candidates obtained from the pharmasset acquisition. for example, we are aware of patents and patent applications owned by other parties that might be alleged to cover the use of gs-7977. if these other parties are successful in obtaining valid and enforceable patents, and establishing our infringement of those patents, we could be prevented from selling gs-7977 unless we were able to obtain a license under such patents. if any license is needed it may not be available on commercially reasonable terms or at all. furthermore, we use significant proprietary technology and rely on unpatented trade secrets and proprietary know-how to protect certain aspects of our production and other technologies. our trade secrets may become known or independently discovered by our competitors. manufacturing problems, including at our third-party manufacturers and corporate partners, could cause inventory shortages and delay product shipments and regulatory approvals, which may adversely affect our results of operations. in order to generate revenue from our products, we must be able to produce sufficient quantities of our products to satisfy demand. many of our products are the result of complex manufacturing processes. the manufacturing process for pharmaceutical products is also highly regulated and regulators may shut down manufacturing facilities that they believe do not comply with regulations. our products are either manufactured at our own facilities or by third-party manufacturers or corporate partners. we depend on third parties to perform manufacturing activities effectively and on a timely basis for the majority of our solid dose products. in addition, roche, either by itself or through third parties, is responsible for manufacturing tamiflu. we, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners are subject to current good manufacturing practices (gmp), which are extensive regulations governing manufacturing processes, stability testing, record keeping and quality standards as defined by the fda and the european medicines agency. similar regulations are in effect in other countries. our third-party manufacturers and corporate partners are independent entities who are subject to their own unique operational and financial risks which are out of our control. if we or any of these third-party manufacturers or corporate partners fail to perform as required, this could impair our ability to deliver our products on a timely basis or receive royalties or cause delays in our clinical trials and applications for regulatory approval. to the extent these risks materialize and affect their performance obligations to us, our financial results may be adversely affected. in addition, we, our third-party manufacturers and our corporate partners may only be able to produce some of our products at one or a limited number of facilities and, therefore, have limited manufacturing capacity for certain products. for example, we currently manufacture cayston exclusively at our san dimas, california manufacturing facility. due to unexpected delays both in qualifying two new external sites and with expanding cayston manufacturing in san dimas, we cannot supply enough cayston to fulfill our projected demand. in february 2012, we suspended access for patients with new prescriptions for cayston subject to certain exceptions where specific medical need exists. patients may use other alternative treatment options until we are able to resolve the supply shortage. as a result of our inability to manufacture sufficient cayston to meet demand, the amount of revenues we expect to receive from the sale of cayston will be reduced. our manufacturing operations are subject to routine inspections by regulatory agencies. for example, in january and february 2010, the fda conducted a routine inspection of our san dimas manufacturing facility, where we exclusively manufacture cayston and ambisome and fill and finish macugen. at the conclusion of that inspection, the fda issued form 483 inspectional observations stating concerns over: the maintenance of 42 table of contents aseptic processing conditions in the manufacturing suite for our ambisome product; environmental maintenance issues in the san dimas warehousing facility; batch sampling; and the timeliness of completion of annual product quality reports. on september 24, 2010, our san dimas manufacturing facility received a warning letter from the fda further detailing the fda concerns over the ambisome manufacturing environment, including control systems and monitoring, procedures to prevent microbiological contamination and preventative cleaning and equipment maintenance. referencing certain viread lots, the letter also stated concerns connected with quality procedures, controls and investigation procedures, and a generalized concern over the effectiveness of the san dimas quality unit in carrying out its responsibilities. in november and december 2010, the fda re-inspected the san dimas facility. the re-inspection closed with no additional form 483 observations. in august 2011, the fda notified us that we resolved all issues raised by the fda in its warning letter. our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility. aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in cayston, is a mono-bactam gram-negative antibiotic. we manufacture cayston by ourselves in san dimas, california, or through third parties, in multi-product manufacturing facilities. historically, the fda has permitted the manufacture of mono-bactams in multi-product manufacturing facilities; however, there can be no assurance that the fda will continue to allow this practice. we do not currently have a single-product facility that can be dedicated to the manufacture of cayston nor have we engaged a contract manufacturer with a single-product facility for cayston. if the fda prohibits the manufacture of mono-bactam antibiotics, like aztreonam, in multi-product manufacturing facilities in the future, we may not be able to procure a single-product manufacturing facility in a timely manner, which would adversely affect our commercial supplies of cayston and our anticipated financial results attributable to such product. we may not be able to obtain materials or supplies necessary to conduct clinical trials or to manufacture and sell our products, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. we need access to certain supplies and products to conduct our clinical trials and to manufacture our products. in light of the global economic downturn, we have had increased difficulty in purchasing certain of the raw materials used in our manufacturing process. if we are unable to purchase sufficient quantities of these materials or find suitable alternate materials in a timely manner, our development efforts for our product candidates may be delayed or our ability to manufacture our products would be limited, which would limit our ability to generate revenues. suppliers of key components and materials must be named in an nda filed with the fda, ema or other regulatory authority for any product candidate for which we are seeking marketing approval, and significant delays can occur if the qualification of a new supplier is required. even after a manufacturer is qualified by the regulatory authority, the manufacturer must continue to expend time, money and effort in the area of production and quality control to ensure full compliance with gmp. manufacturers are subject to regular, periodic inspections by the regulatory authorities following initial approval. if, as a result of these inspections, a regulatory authority determines that the equipment, facilities, laboratories or processes do not comply with applicable regulations and conditions of product approval, the regulatory authority may suspend the manufacturing operations. if the manufacturing operations of any of the single suppliers for our products are suspended, we may be unable to generate sufficient quantities of commercial or clinical supplies of product to meet market demand, which would in turn decrease our revenues and harm our business. in addition, if delivery of material from our suppliers were interrupted for any reason, we may be unable to ship certain of our products for commercial supply or to supply our products in development for clinical trials. in addition, some of our products and the materials that we utilize in our operations are made at only one facility. for example, we manufacture ambisome and fill and finish macugen exclusively at our facilities in san dimas, california. in the event of a disaster, including an earthquake, equipment failure or other difficulty, we may be unable to replace this manufacturing capacity in a timely manner and may be unable to manufacture ambisome and macugen to meet market needs. 43 table of contents cayston is dependent on two different third-party single-source suppliers. first, aztreonam, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in aztreonam for inhalation solution, is manufactured by a single supplier at a single site. second, it is administered to the lungs of patients through a device that is made by a single supplier at a single site. disruptions or delays with any of these single suppliers could adversely affect our ability to supply cayston, and we cannot be sure that alternative suppliers can be identified in a timely manner, or at all. see the risk factor entitled our ability to successfully manufacture and commercialize cayston will depend upon our ability to manufacture in a multi-product facility. in addition, we depend on a single supplier for high-quality cholesterol, which is used in the manufacture of ambisome. we also rely on a single source for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of ranexa, hepsera, letairis and vistide and for the tableting of letairis. astellas us llc, which markets lexiscan in the united states, is responsible for the commercial manufacture and supply of product in the united states and is dependent on a single supplier for the active pharmaceutical ingredient of lexiscan. problems with any of the single suppliers we depend on may negatively impact our development and commercialization efforts. a significant portion of the raw materials and intermediates used to manufacture our hiv products (atripla, truvada, viread, complera/eviplera, emtriva) are supplied by chinese-based companies. as a result, an international trade dispute between china and the united states or any other actions by the chinese government that would limit or prevent chinese companies from supplying these materials would adversely affect our ability to manufacture and supply our hiv products to meet market needs and have a material and adverse effect on our operating results. we face credit risks from our southern european customers that may adversely affect our results of operations. our european product sales to government-owned or supported customers in southern europe, specifically greece, italy, portugal and spain have historically been and continue to be subject to significant payment delays due to government funding and reimbursement practices. this has resulted and may continue to result in days sales outstanding being significantly higher in these countries due to the average length of time that accounts receivable remain outstanding. as of december 31, 2011, our accounts receivable in these countries totaled approximately $1.10 billion of which, $612.4 million were past due greater than 120 days and $250.7 million were past due greater than 365 days as follows (in thousands): december 31, 2011 greater than 120 days past due greater than 365 days past due italy $ 102,228 $ 28,328 spain 404,123 187,780 portugal 94,029 33,092 greece 12,067 1,535 total $ 612,447 $ 250,735 as a result of the fiscal and debt crises in these countries, the number of days our invoices are past due has continued to increase in line with that being experienced by other pharmaceutical companies that are also selling directly to hospitals. historically, receivable balances with certain publicly-owned hospitals accumulate over a period of time and are then subsequently settled as large lump sum payments. if significant changes were to occur in the reimbursement practices of these european governments or if government funding becomes unavailable, we may not be able to collect on amounts due to us from these customers and our results of operations would be adversely affected. for example, in 2011, the greek government settled substantially all of its outstanding receivables subject to the bond settlement with zero-coupon bonds that trade at a discount to face 44 table of contents value. through december 31, 2011, we received a total of $63.5 million in bonds. our allowance for doubtful accounts was adequate to cover the exposure related to the discount on these bonds. in spain, italy and portugal we are actively pursuing collection of the overdue receivables and taking action as necessary to enforce our legal right to payment. our revenues and gross margin could be reduced by imports from countries where our products are available at lower prices. prices for our products are based on local market economics and competition and sometimes differ from country to country. our sales in countries with relatively higher prices may be reduced if products can be imported into those or other countries from lower price markets. there have been cases in which other pharmaceutical products were sold at steeply discounted prices in the developing world and then re-exported to european countries where they could be re-sold at much higher prices. if this happens with our products, particularly truvada and viread, which we have agreed to make available at substantially reduced prices to 134 countries participating in our gilead access program, or atripla, which merck distributes at substantially reduced prices to hiv infected patients in developing countries under our 2006 agreement, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, we have established partnerships with thirteen indian generic manufacturers to distribute high-quality, low-cost generic versions of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate to 112 developing world countries, including india. if generic versions of our medications under these licenses are then re-exported to the united states, europe or other markets outside of these 112 countries, our revenues would be adversely affected. in addition, purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high may adversely impact our revenues and gross margin and may cause our sales to fluctuate from quarter to quarter. for example, in the european union, we are required to permit products purchased in one country to be sold in another country. purchases of our products in countries where our selling prices are relatively low for resale in countries in which our selling prices are relatively high affect the inventory level held by our wholesalers and can cause the relative sales levels in the various countries to fluctuate from quarter to quarter and not reflect the actual consumer demand in any given quarter. these quarterly fluctuations may impact our earnings, which could adversely affect our stock price and harm our business. expensive litigation and government investigations have reduced and may continue to reduce our earnings. in november 2008, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of truvada. in the notice, teva alleges that two of the patents associated with emtricitabine are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in december 2008, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents. in march 2009, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of atripla. in the notice, teva challenged the same two emtricitabine patents. in may 2009, we filed another lawsuit against teva for infringement of the two emtricitabine patents, and this lawsuit was consolidated with the lawsuit filed in december 2008. in january 2010, we received notice that teva submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of viread. in the notice, teva challenged four of the tenofovir disoproxil fumarate patents protecting viread. in january 2010, we also received notices from teva amending its andas related to atripla and truvada. in the notice related to truvada, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate and two additional patents related to emtricitabine. in the notice related to atripla, teva challenged four patents related to tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, two additional patents related to emtricitabine and two patents related to efavirenz. in march 2010, we filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the four viread patents and two additional emtricitabine patents. in march 2010, bms and merck filed a lawsuit against teva for infringement of the patents related to efavirenz. 45 table of contents in june 2010, we received notice that lupin submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of ranexa. in the notice, lupin alleges that ten of the patents associated with ranexa are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by lupin manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of ranexa. in july 2010, we filed a lawsuit against lupin for infringement of our patents for ranexa. in august 2010, we received notice that sigmapharm submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of hepsera. in the notice, sigmapharm alleges that both of the patents associated with hepsera are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by sigmapharm manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of hepsera. in september 2010, we filed a lawsuit against sigmapharm for infringement of our patents for hepsera. one of the patents challenged by sigmapharm is also being challenged by ranbaxy pursuant to a notice received in october 2010. the patent challenged by ranbaxy expires in july 2018. we are considering our options for enforcing our patent. in february 2011, we received notice that natco submitted an anda to the fda requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of tamiflu. in the notice, natco alleges that one of the patents associated with tamiflu is invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by natco manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of tamiflu. in march 2011, we and roche filed a lawsuit against natco for infringement of the patent associated with tamiflu. in november 2011, we received notice that teva submitted an abbreviated new drug submission (ands) to the canadian ministry of health requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of our truvada product. in the notice, teva alleges that three of the patents associated with truvada are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of truvada. in january 2012, we filed a lawsuit against teva seeking an order of prohibition against approval of this ands. in december 2011, we received notice that teva submitted an ands to the canadian ministry of health requesting permission to manufacture and market a generic version of our atripla product. in the notice, teva alleges that three of our patents associated with atripla and two of merck patents associated with atripla are invalid, unenforceable and/or will not be infringed by teva manufacture, use or sale of a generic version of atripla. in february 2012, we filed a lawsuit against teva seeking an order of prohibition against approval of this ands. we cannot predict the ultimate outcome of these actions, and we may spend significant resources enforcing and defending these patents. if we are unsuccessful in these lawsuits, some or all of our original claims in the patents may be narrowed or invalidated and the patent protection for atripla, truvada, viread, hepsera, ranexa and tamiflu in the united states and atripla and viread in canada could be substantially shortened. further, if all of the patents covering those products are invalidated, the fda could approve the requests to manufacture a generic version of such products prior to the expiration date of those patents. in addition, in june 2011, we received a subpoena from the united states attorney office for the northern district of california requesting documents related to the manufacture, and related quality and distribution practices, of atripla, emtriva, hepsera, letairis, truvada, viread and complera. the outcome of the lawsuits above, or any other lawsuits that may be brought against us, the investigation or any other investigations that may be initiated, are inherently uncertain, and adverse developments or outcomes can result in significant expenses, monetary damages, penalties or injunctive relief against us that could significantly reduce our earnings and cash flows and harm our business. 46 table of contents in some countries, we may be required to grant compulsory licenses for our products or face generic competition for our products. in a number of developing countries, government officials and other interested groups have suggested that pharmaceutical companies should make drugs for hiv infection available at low cost. alternatively, governments in those developing countries could require that we grant compulsory licenses to allow competitors to manufacture and sell their own versions of our products, thereby reducing our product sales. for example, in the past, certain offices of the government of brazil have expressed concern over the affordability of our hiv products and declared that they were considering issuing compulsory licenses to permit the manufacture of otherwise patented products for hiv infection, including viread. in july 2009, the brazilian patent authority rejected our patent application for tenofovir disoproxil fumarate, the active pharmaceutical ingredient in viread. this was the highest level of appeal available to us within the brazilian patent authority. because we do not currently have a patent in brazil, in 2011 the brazilian government purchased all of its supply of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate from generic manufacturers. as a result, we did not sell any of our hiv products in brazil in 2011. in addition, concerns over the cost and availability of tamiflu related to a potential avian flu pandemic and h1n1 influenza generated international discussions over compulsory licensing of our tamiflu patents. for example, the canadian government considered allowing canadian manufacturers to manufacture and export the active ingredient in tamiflu to eligible developing and least developed countries under canada access to medicines regime. furthermore, roche issued voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu. for example, roche granted a sublicense to shanghai pharmaceutical (group) co., ltd. for china and a sublicense to india hetero drugs limited for india and certain developing countries. should one or more compulsory licenses be issued permitting generic manufacturing to override our tamiflu patents, or should roche issue additional voluntary licenses to permit third-party manufacturing of tamiflu, those developments could reduce royalties we receive from roche sales of tamiflu. certain countries do not permit enforcement of our patents, and third-party manufacturers are able to sell generic versions of our products in those countries. compulsory licenses or sales of generic versions of our products could significantly reduce our sales and adversely affect our results of operations, particularly if generic versions of our products are imported into territories where we have existing commercial sales. changes in royalty revenue disproportionately affect our pre-tax income, earnings per share and gross margins. a portion of our revenues is derived from royalty revenues recognized from collaboration agreements with third parties. royalty revenues impact our pre-tax income, earnings per share and gross margins disproportionately more than their contributions to our revenues. any increase or decrease to our royalty revenue could be material and could significantly impact our operating results. for example, we recognized $75.5 million in royalty revenue for the year ended december 31, 2011 related to royalties received from sales of tamiflu by f. hoffmann-la roche ltd (together with hoffmann-la roche inc., roche). although such royalty revenue represented approximately 1% of our total revenues in 2011, it represented approximately 2% of our pre-tax income during the period. roche tamiflu sales have unpredictable variability due to their strong relationship with global pandemic planning efforts. tamiflu royalties increased sharply in 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 primarily as a result of pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. tamiflu royalties since the second quarter of 2010 have decreased due to declining pandemic planning initiatives worldwide. we may face significant liability resulting from our products that may not be covered by insurance and successful claims could materially reduce our earnings. the testing, manufacturing, marketing and use of our commercial products, as well as product candidates in development, involve substantial risk of product liability claims. these claims may be made directly by consumers, healthcare providers, pharmaceutical companies or others. in recent years, coverage and availability 47 table of contents of cost-effective product liability insurance has decreased, so we may be unable to maintain sufficient coverage for product liabilities that may arise. in addition, the cost to defend lawsuits or pay damages for product liability claims may exceed our coverage. if we are unable to maintain adequate coverage or if claims exceed our coverage, our financial condition and our ability to clinically test our product candidates and market our products will be adversely impacted. in addition, negative publicity associated with any claims, regardless of their merit, may decrease the future demand for our products and impair our financial condition. business disruptions from natural or man-made disasters may harm our future revenues. our worldwide operations could be subject to business interruptions stemming from natural or man-made disasters for which we may be self-insured. our corporate headquarters and palo alto locations, which together house a majority of our research and development activities, and our san dimas and oceanside manufacturing facilities are located in california, a seismically active region. as we do not carry earthquake insurance and significant recovery time could be required to resume operations, our financial condition and operating results could be materially adversely affected in the event of a major earthquake. changes in our effective income tax rate could reduce our earnings. various factors may have favorable or unfavorable effects on our income tax rate. these factors include, but are not limited to, interpretations of existing tax laws, changes in tax laws and rates, our portion of the non-deductible pharmaceutical excise tax, the accounting for stock options and other share-based payments, mergers and acquisitions, future levels of r&amp;d spending, changes in accounting standards, changes in the mix of earnings in the various tax jurisdictions in which we operate, changes in overall levels of pre-tax earnings and resolution of federal, state and foreign income tax audits. the impact on our income tax provision resulting from the above mentioned factors may be significant and could have a negative impact on our net income. our income tax returns are audited by federal, state and foreign tax authorities. we are currently under examination by the internal revenue service for the 2008 and 2009 tax years and by various state and foreign jurisdictions. there are differing interpretations of tax laws and regulations, and as a result, significant disputes may arise with these tax authorities involving issues of the timing and amount of deductions and allocations of income among various tax jurisdictions. resolution of one or more of these exposures in any reporting period could have a material impact on the results of operations for that period. if we fail to attract and retain highly qualified personnel, we may be unable to successfully develop new product candidates, conduct our clinical trials and commercialize our product candidates. our future success will depend in large part on our continued ability to attract and retain highly qualified scientific, technical and management personnel, as well as personnel with expertise in clinical testing, governmental regulation and commercialization. we face competition for personnel from other companies, universities, public and private research institutions, government entities and other organizations. competition for qualified personnel in the biopharmaceutical field is intense, and there is a limited pool of qualified potential employees to recruit. we may not be able to attract and retain quality personnel on acceptable terms. if we are unsuccessful in our recruitment and retention efforts, our business may be harmed. quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk foreign currency exchange risk our operations include manufacturing and sales activities in the united states, canada and ireland as well as sales activities in countries outside the united states, including europe and asia pacific. as a result, our financial results could be significantly affected by factors such as changes in foreign currency exchange rates or weak economic conditions in the foreign markets in which we distribute our products. our operating results are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates between the u.s. dollar and various foreign currencies, the most significant of which is the euro. when the u.s. dollar strengthens against these currencies, the relative value of sales made in the respective foreign currency decreases. conversely, when the u.s. dollar weakens against these currencies, the relative amounts of such sales increase. overall, we are a net receiver of foreign currencies and, therefore, benefit from a weaker u.s. dollar and are adversely affected by a stronger u.s. dollar relative to those foreign currencies in which we transact significant amounts of business. a significant percentage of our product sales are denominated in foreign currencies. we enter into foreign currency exchange forward and option contracts to partially mitigate the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on net cash flows from our foreign currency denominated sales. we also hedge certain monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, which reduces but does not eliminate our exposure to currency fluctuations between the date a transaction is recorded and the date that cash is collected or paid. in general, the market risks of these contracts are offset by corresponding gains and losses on the transactions being hedged. the following table summarizes the notional amounts, weighted-average currency exchange rates and fair values of our open foreign currency exchange forward contracts at december 31, 2011. we had no foreign currency exchange option contracts outstanding at december 31, 2011. all contracts have maturities of 18 months or less. weighted-average rates are stated in terms of the amount of u.s. dollars per foreign currency. fair values represent estimated settlement amounts at december 31, 2011 and 2010 (notional amounts and fair values in u.s. dollars and in thousands): foreign currency exchange forward contracts december 31, 2011 december 31, 2010 currency notional amount weighted-average settlement price fair value notional amount weighted-average settlement price fair value euro $ 3,205,266 1.34 $ 86,942 $ 2,763,277 1.33 $ 43,854 british pound 305,314 1.57 4,030 313,380 1.55 2,133 canadian dollar 179,785 0.99 1,904 183,276 0.97 (5,669 ) australian dollar 129,025 0.98 (3,356 ) 112,145 0.95 (8,494 ) swiss franc 110,161 1.10 2,532 82,765 0.99 (4,935 ) danish krone 1,520 0.16 (170 ) 29,532 0.18 690 swedish krone 31,738 0.15 531 30,266 0.14 (881 ) norwegian krone 17,898 0.17 428 18,871 0.17 (272 ) new zealand dollar 9,304 0.75 (217 ) 10,035 0.74 (507 ) turkish lira 10,539 0.52 (7 ) 10,539 0.64 (11 ) polish zloty 25,532 0.32 2,148 435 0.33 (0 ) total $ 4,026,082 $ 94,765 $ 3,554,521 $ 25,908 78 table of contents interest rate risk our portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities and our fixed and variable rate liabilities create an exposure to interest rate risk. with respect to our investment portfolio, we adhere to an investment policy that requires us to limit amounts invested in securities based on credit rating, maturity, industry group and investment type and issuer, except for securities issued by the u.s. government. the goals of our investment policy, in order of priority, are as follows: safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk; liquidity of investments sufficient to meet cash flow requirements; and competitive after-tax rate of return. the following table summarizes the expected maturities and average interest rates of our interest-generating assets and interest-bearing liabilities at december 31, 2011 (dollars in thousands): total fair value at december 31, 2011 years ending december 31, 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 thereafter total assets available-for-sale debt securities $ 1,574,140 $ 26,100 $ $ $ $ 51,500 $ 1,651,740 $ 1,616,664 average interest rate 1.2 % 101.2 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.0 % 0.8 % liabilities long-term debt (1) $ $ 649,867 $ 2,000,000 $ $ 1,950,000 $ 3,250,000 $ 7,849,867 $ 8,522,542 average interest rate 0.0 % 0.6 % 1.5 % 0.0 % 2.1 % 4.8 % (1) in april 2006, we issued convertible senior notes due in may 2013 in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the notes were issued at par and bear interest rates of 0.625%, and may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain circumstances. in july 2010, we issued convertible senior notes due in may 2014 and may 2016 in a private placement pursuant to rule 144a of the securities act of 1933, as amended. the notes due in may 2014 and may 2016 were issued at par and bear interest rates of 1.00% and 1.625%, respectively, and may be converted into shares of our common stock subject to certain circumstances. in march 2011, we issued senior unsecured notes due in april 2021 in a registered offering. the notes pay interest at a fixed annual rate of 4.50%. in december 2011, we issued senior unsecured notes due in december 2014, 2016, 2021 and 2041 in a registered offering. the notes pay interest at fixed annual rates ranging from 2.40% to 5.65%. in connection with funding our $11.1 billion acquisition of pharmasset, we liquidated approximately $4.34 billion of our investment portfolio in late 2011. the proceeds of the sales were reinvested in money market funds which totaled $7.46 billion as of december 31, 2011. as interest rate risk for money market funds is low, we have excluded the balance from the table of interest rate sensitive instruments above. we continue to invest our existing portfolio in securities with a similar profile, however, the amounts invested are generally smaller and have a shorter investment horizon. credit risk as of december 31, 2011, we held approximately $47.0 million of auction rate securities within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities. our auction rate securities comprised less than 1% of our total 79 table of contents cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as of december 31, 2011. in 2008, we began observing the failed auctions for our auction rate securities for which the underlying assets are comprised of student loans. most of our auction rate securities, including those subject to the failed auctions, are currently rated aaa, consistent with the high quality rating required by our investment policy, are supported by the federal government as part of the federal family education loan program and are over-collateralized. our auction rate securities reset every seven to 14 days with maturity dates ranging from 2025 through 2040 and have annual interest rates ranging from 0.18% to 0.80%. as of december 31, 2011, our auction rate securities continued to earn interest. if auctions continue to fail for securities in which we have invested, we may be unable to liquidate some or all of our auction rate securities at par should we need or desire to access the funds invested in those securities. however, based on our expected operating cash flows as well as access to funds through our credit facility, we believe that we will be able to hold these securities until there is a recovery in the auction market and the related securities, which may be at final maturity. as a result, we do not anticipate that the current illiquidity of these auction rate securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital. as of december 31, 2011, we held greek government-issued bonds with an estimated fair value of approximately $24.7 million within our available-for-sale long-term marketable securities. in 2010, the greek government agreed to settle the majority of its aged outstanding accounts receivable with zero-coupon bonds. currently, these bonds trade infrequently on the open market at a substantial discount to the face value. we believe we will be able to hold these securities until maturity. as a result, we do not anticipate that the illiquidity of these securities will have a material effect on our cash requirements or working capital. in light of the volatility and developments that we have seen in the financial markets, we continue to review our cash equivalents and marketable securities carefully and strive to invest prudently. we believe that maintaining the primary goals of our investment policy, safety and preservation of principal and diversification of risk, as well as liquidity, has helped protect us from many of the risks in the credit markets while allowing us to continue to meet our operating cash flow requirements as well as execute on other strategic opportunities. we are also subject to credit risk from our accounts receivable related to our product sales. our accounts receivable balance at december 31, 2011 was $1.95 billion, compared to $1.62 billion at december 31, 2010. the majority of our trade accounts receivable arises from product sales in the united states and europe. as of december 31, 2011, our accounts receivables in southern europe, specifically greece, italy, portugal and spain totaled approximately $1.10 billion, of which $612.4 million were greater than 120 days past due and $250.7 million were greater than 365 days past due.